My name is Philip Pirrip, but as a child I could not say my name.I called myself Pip, and that has been my name ever since.I never knew my mother and father. They both died when I was a baby. I was brought up by my only sister, who was married to a black smith, Joe Gargery. My story begins on a cold, grey winter afternoon in the church-yard where my parents are buried. I would often go to their grave sand look down at the words on their gravestone: Philip Pirrip andGeorgiana, Wife of the Above. I was a sensitive and lonely child and was often sad.The marshes beyond the churchyard were grey. The river beyond the marshes was a darker line of grey. A bitter wind was blowing across the marshes from the sea. The graveyard was a dark and frightening place.I shivered. Cold and afraid, I began to cry.‘Quiet, you little devil4!’ cried a terrible voice. ‘Keep still – or I’ll cut your throat!’A rough-looking man had taken hold of me. He held me tightly by the neck.‘Oh, don’t cut my throat, sir!’ I cried. ‘Please, don’t!’The man’s rough grey clothes were torn and muddy. Like me, he was shivering with cold. His shoes were old and broken. He had a torn piece of cloth tied round his head. And his eyes were wild and terrible.‘Tell me your name,’ the man growled5. ‘Tell me. Quick!’‘Pip, sir. Pip,’ I answered.‘Show me where you live,’ the terrible man demanded.e, where’s your mother?’ the man in grey asked suddenly.‘There, sir,’ I answered, pointing over his shoulder to my mother’s grave.The man looked behind him and started to run.‘I mean – she’s buried there, sir. That’s my mother. “Georgiana, Wife of the Above”.’‘Oh, I see,’ the man said, limping slowly back. ‘And is that your father there buried with your mother?’‘Yes, sir,’ I replied.‘Then who do you live with?’ the man asked. ‘That is, if I let you live,’ he said roughly.‘With my sister, sir – Mrs Joe Gargery – wife of Joe Gargery, the black smith, sir.’‘A blacksmith, is he?’ the man muttered5, looking down at his leg. There was a thick band of iron round his ankle, with a broken chain hanging from the band.The man came nearer. He took hold of my arms and tipped me back over the gravestone as far as I could go. His terrible eyes stared into mine.‘Now, look here4,’ he said. ‘Do you know what a file lis?’‘Yes, sir.’‘Then you get me a file. And you get me some food. Do you understand?’‘Yes, sir.’
