The children and their father remember Miranda, of course, and they talk about her sometimes.
Miranda's sister often visits us, and she always tells the children a story about their mother. Nick remembers
Miranda; I know he does. And in the hospital, Grandma remembers, too. They all remember Miranda.
I never met Miranda, but every day I look at her photograph, next to the telephone in the kitchen, the picture of her with her children. Every day I look at her beautiful dark eyes and her long dark hair.
I first saw Miranda's photograph two years ago. It was a cold October day, and I left London for my new job with a family in Norfolk. I drove north, past Norwich, and it began to rain. It was dark and there was a strong wind so I drove slowly and carefully. I wanted to see the Harvey children before they went to bed. But because of the weather, it was eight o'clock before I arrived in Cromer. I drove through the town, along the sea road.
Suddenly, I stopped. There was a tree across the road. I got out of my car. It was a big tree, and I couldn't move it. Just then, a car drove up behind me and a man got out.
'What's the matter? Oh a tree across the road. He was a tall man, about thirty years old. 'Where are you going?' he asked. 'Not far,' I said. It's a house along this road, near the sea. It's called Beach House.
'Oh, I know Beach House,' the man said. “It's the last house along this road. But you can't drive there tonight, with this tree across the road. He stopped for a minute.

I'm Nick Watson, and I live at the farm along the road. We can go back to my house, and then walk across the fields to Beach House. Are you visiting for the weekend?'
'No, no. I'm going to work in the house and look after Mr Harvey's children. Their mother died two years ago,
and their grandmother has arthritis in her legs and can't walk much now. So I'm going to look after the children and the house,' I told him. 'I met old Mrs Harvey in London, six weeks ago, and she gave me the job. Do you know the Harveys?'
The man laughed. His laugh was warm and friendly. 'Oh, yes, I know them,' he said.
We drove back down the road and into the farm. Then we walked across the fields. It was dark and windy and cold. After ten minutes we arrived at a big white house. The lights were on downstairs, and the house looked friendly. I had no home because my mother and father died a long time ago, and I had no brothers or sisters. This was my first job and I wanted to be happy in this house.
A man opened the door. He looked tired and there was no smile on his face. 'Hello, I'm Cathy Wilson,' I began. I'm very late, I know. It's because the weather's so bad!
