'Now, Emil,' said his mother, 'get ready your clothes are on your bed. Get dressed, and then we'll have our dinner!
Yes, Mother!
'Wait a minute. Have I forgotten anything? Your other clothes are in your case. There's some food for your journey. These flowers are for your aunt. I'll give you the money for your grandmother after dinner. No, that's all, I
think.'
Emil left the room and Mrs Fisher turned to her neighbour, Mrs Martin. “My son's going to the city for two or
three weeks. At first he didn't want to go. But what can he do here while his school's closed? My sister's asked us
again and again to visit her. I can't go, because I have so much work. Emil's never travelled alone before, but he's old enough now. He'll be all right: his grandmother's going to meet him at the station!
'I think he'll enjoy the city,' said Mrs Martin. 'All boys like it. There are so many things to see. I must go now, Mrs Fisher. Goodbye!
Emil came back into the room and sat down at the table. His hair was tidy and he was wearing his best jacket. While he ate, he watched his mother. 'I mustn't eat too much,' he thought. 'She won't like it when I'm going away for the first time.'
But his mother was thinking about other things. 'Don't forget to write to me when you arrive,' she said. 'All right!


'Give my love to your aunt and your grandmother and your cousin Polly. Look after yourself. And be good. I don't want anyone to say that you're not a polite boy!
'I promise.
After dinner Emil's mother went to the sitting-room. There was a tin box on one of the shelves. She took out
some money and came back to the table.
'Here's seventy pounds,' she said. 'Five ten-pound notes and four five-pound notes. Give your grandmother sixty pounds. I couldn't send the money to her before. But I've worked hard and I've saved it for her. The other ten pounds is for you. Your return journey will cost about three pounds. Use the other seven pounds when you go out. I'll put the money in this little bag. Now don't lose it! Where will you put it?'
Emil thought for a minute, then he put the bag into the pocket inside his jacket. It'll be safe there,' he said. His mother looked serious. 'You mustn't tell anyone on the train about the money! 'Of course not,' said Emil.
Some people think that seventy pounds is not a large amount of money. But it was a lot of money to Emil and his mother. Emil's father was dead, so his mother worked hard all day. She paid for their food and clothes, and for her son's books and his school. Emil realized that his mother worked hard. So he really tried to do well in class. She


was always pleased when he got a good report from his teacher at the end of the year.
'Let's go now,' said Mrs Fisher. 'You mustn't miss the train. If the bus comes along, we'll take it.'