In the early years of the nineteenth century, strange-looking little men were often seen on the country roads, usually with a heavy bag on their shoulders.
They were linen-weavers, taking the linen they had woven to the women in the villages. Unlike the strong, healthy country people, they were small and thin, with tired white faces, bent backs and
round shoulders.
They were often shortsighted too, because they had to look so closely at their work. To the villagers the weavers looked almost foreign, and quite frightening.
Where did they come from? Was it the devil who sent them? Who were their parents? How could you trust a man if you didn't know his father or mother? Country people used to be very suspicious of all strangers and travellers.
They were also suspicious of clever people, people who could do something they themselves had not learnt to do.
That is why the linen-weavers, who often moved from towns to live and work in the country, were considered strangers all their lives by their neighbours, and were sometimes very lonely as a result.
Silas Marner was one of these weavers. He lived in a small cottage near the village of Raveloe.


Every day he worked at his loom in the cottage.
The small boys of Raveloe had never heard the sound of a loom before, and sometimes they used to run up to his house to look quickly in at the window.
If Silas noticed them, he lifted his shortsighted eyes from the loom to stare at the boys. There was something terrible about his stare, which made the boys run away at once, screaming with fear.
The villagers believed that Silas had an almost devilish power, which he could use to harm them if he wanted, and so they were all afraid of him.
Raveloe was an important-looking village with a fine old church and a number of large farms.
But it was at least an hour away from any other village, and very few strangers visited it, which explains why the villagers' opinions were so out of date.
Silas Marner had first come to Raveloe fifteen years before, as a young man. He and his way of life seemed very strange to the villagers. He worked long hours at his loom, and had no friends or visitors from the village or anywhere else.
He never talked to his neighbours unless it was necessary for his work, and he never looked at any of the Raveloe girls. 'Who would want to marry him anyway?' the girls laughed to each other.


Marry a dead man come to life again, with that unhealthy white skin and those insect-like eyes of his? Certainly not! One of the villagers had had a strange experience with Silas.
One evening he had discovered the weaver resting on a field gate, his eyes open but unseeing, and his body
After a few moments Silas appeared to wake up, said Goodnight', and walked away. When this was discussed in the village, some people thought that Silas had had a fit. But others, like Mr Macey, the church clerk, refused to accept a medical explanation. 'No, he isn't ill, that weaver, said old Mr Macey, shaking his head knowingly.
If he had a fit, he'd fall down, wouldn't he? I think his soul flies out of his body sometimes and that's why he looks so strange!
'He doesn't come to church, does he? And how does he know so much about medicines? You all remember how he made Sally Oates better, when the doctor himself could do no more for her!
'That's the devil's work, believe me!' However, the housewives needed Silas to weave their linen, and they could find nothing wrong with his work.
The years passed, and Raveloe villagers did not change their opinion of the weaver.