It had been a long day. It was almost time for a cold beer.
Stella was reading at her desk. How are things, Stella?' I asked. ‘Everything's fine except that the office is too hot, Stella replied. 'I can't work and I've got a headache! 'Message received. So everything's normal,' I said. 'That's what I like to hear. What are you reading about?'
'Air-conditioning units. You know what they are - smart machines that cool down rooms.' She held a picture
of one up.
'Dream on! These things cost money,' I said. The phone rang. It was Joe.
'Nat? I've been watching Wiseman Cabs all afternoon. There's a lot of movement in and out of that office. Cab drivers going in carrying one suitcase then coming out with a different one, and driving away. Seem to be doing everything except carrying passengers?
'Interesting. I wonder what Wiseman's up to?' 'The answer's in those suitcases, boss! 'Did you get some photos?' I asked.


'Used a whole roll of film. It's being developed now,' Joe replied. 'Well done. There'll be a cold beer with your name on it waiting at McFadden's:
Why pay for a sauna when all you have to do is sit and sweat in your office? Maybe Stella was right. She was usually right about a lot of things. I was just thinking about the cold beers when Dr. Fischer phoned from Bellevue Hospital. Annie's condition was getting much worse.
'How much longer has she got, Doctor?' I asked.
'She's had heart trouble for years, and then with that heart attack at the station I'm seriously worried, Mr. Marley!
'Is she still conscious?' 'Yes, but only just!
'Well, I've got something that should make her hold on,' I said. 'We're looking for her son and getting closer. We've found his old boss in the East Village. There seems to have been some argument between them. My guess is Jackie's keeping away from him. Just tell her we're getting close.'
I felt both sad and angry as I put down the phone. Sad for the people who had to live out their lives on the
streets.
Angry about the society that put them on the streets.


Stella stopped reading and looked up. 'What's the matter, Nat?' 'It's Annie. If we don't find Jackie soon, she's going to die without seeing him,' I said. 'Nat, I got an idea.
'Yeah?'
'Why don't I phone every cab company in the book? I could say I'm Jackie's ex-girlfriend wanting to see him again, to talk things over,' Stella said.
'Good thinking. But first, I need some food and beer. I'll see you in McFadden's after you've locked up.
Ed Winchester from the Daily News was watching me as I finished my first beer. It was cool and delicious and hardly touched the sides of my throat as it went down. I immediately felt better.
'Nat, what a thirst! Now have I got something for you from the Daily News five years ago. But first ... 'I get it. The story's going to cost me another drink. This had better be good!
Ed handed me a photocopy of a news story. The headline read 'Weissmann and Clayton Not Guilty! I continued reading. 'Ernst Weissmann and Jackie Clayton walked free today after being found not guilty of buying and selling stolen property.
'That's it,' I said. 'Joe spent the afternoon watching what was going on at Wiseman Cabs. Jackie Clayton used


to work for Wiseman Cabs. In this story, Jackie was with a guy called Weissmann. Maybe he changed his name to make it sound more American.'
Joe had arrived with the photos. Picture after picture of cab drivers going in and out of the office with different suitcases. And a beautiful picture of Wiseman.
'That's him, I said. 'Now if we compare him with the picture of Ernst Weissmann in the Daily News story.
Yeah, it's the same guy. And he doesn't get any prettier with age.