'Why can't you eat more politely, Jane? Like your sister Ruth!' said Bee across the lunch table.
'She's better at spaghetti than I am, that's all,' said Jane. 'I can't be bothered with things like that.' Her Aunt Bee looked along the table at the twins Jane and Ruth, and smiled. They were almost ten, and were exactly the same, but it was never difficult to tell which was Jane and which was Ruth. Jane always seemed to wear old clothes, clothes for riding horses and for working with them. Ruth, on the other hand, was always in a fresh, clean dress, her hands were never dirty and her hair was always neat and tidy.
Eight years, thought Bee. Eight years since the sudden, shocking death of the twins' mother and father, Nora and Bill, in that terrible plane crash! Eight years since she left her life and her job in London to come to Latchetts in order to look after her dead brother's children. And soon she would no longer be responsible for them. The twins' brother, Simon, would be twenty-one in a few weeks' time, and his mother's fortune would be his. The father had not been poor; the Ashby family had lived comfortably at Latchetts for more than two hundred years, but they had never been rich. Latchetts was a small estate of three farms, the park and the house itself. Bill's death had left his sister Bee with many problems as well as those of bringing up his children. Bee had refused to use the money that had belonged to Bill's wife, and had been determined to manage the estate as a successful business. The money would go to the oldest son when he was twenty-one and Bee had decided not to touch it. So Latchetts had earned its living as a farm for horses, as a school for training horses, as a school for people who wanted to learn to ride,


and each year Latchetts had made a profit. Bee had made sure of that.
And in six weeks' time Simon would be twenty-one, would receive his mother's money, and become master
of Latchetts.
What would he do with it, wondered Bee, as she watched his fair head across the lunch table.
Simon, who had so much charm, but who was also so selfish. He seemed so often to want help, but always with such a charming manner that people helped him, even before he asked. In fact, it wasn't true that he was helpless; it was just his way of making sure that he could get what he wanted. Unfortunately, very few people, except Bee, seemed to understand this side of Simon's character.
The twins' older sister, Eleanor, came in. 'Oh, you smell of horses,' said Ruth, turning up her nose. 'What made you so late, Eleanor?' asked Bee. 'Oh, the Parslow girl from Clare. But it's a waste of time trying to teach her. She'll never learn to ride! 'Perhaps mad people can't ride,' suggested Ruth. 'Ruth!' said Bee firmly. “The pupils at the school at Clare are not crazy. They're just ... difficult. 'Well, they seem to be mad, from what I see of them, answered Ruth. Silence fell on the Ashby table. Bee thought about Latchetts, the estate that would belong to Simon in a few


weeks. She hoped he would look after it well. It was the only local estate to have stayed in the same family for over two hundred years.
Even the big estate at Clare, with its beautiful, long, white house had been sold. The Ledingham family had wasted their money and had not looked after their land. In the end they had had to sell the house where they had lived for so long, but which had perhaps never really been a home for them. The house at Clare had become a school for difficult children with rich parents, and the Ledinghams had gone.
But the Ashbys stayed at Latchetts.