OK, that's it for today' says Mr. Babic. 'Read some more of your book for the next class.'
The students put their books in their bags and start to go out of the classroom. Samorn doesn't get up. She puts her head on the table. This is very difficult, she thinks. She loves Economics, but here in the U.S. she has to study it in English. She isn't studying in Thai, her language. It's difficult to understand everything. She looks at the other students in the class. They look happy. They're happy because they understand, she thinks.
Samorn closes her eyes and starts to think about home. She thinks about Thailand where she lives. She thinks
about the hot weather, about the nice food and about her friends. She remembers her mother and father, her
sisters and brothers. She thinks about her boyfriend Lek and she wants to cry. Why am I here? she thinks. This is only her first week at Brenton College, but she wants to go home.
Samorn looks at her watch. It's just after eleven o'clock. In Thailand it's one o'clock in the morning.
She goes out of the classroom and she walks to her room in the dorm. It's nice, but cold. It's September and the trees are orange and brown. She sees students everywhere, in twos and threes. They're laughing and talking as they walk to and from their classes. They all look happy.
'Hi!' Samorn hears someone speaking and she looks. She sees a student from her class. Harrison, his name is,
she thinks.
'Hello,' Samorn replies. She smiles a little, but she doesn't look into Harrison's eyes.


Harrison is with some friends. They're all laughing at Harrison. Harrison is funny and he says funny things. She sees that in class. He's good-looking too and he looks rich. He wears good clothes. He comes from a very rich family, she knows. Samorn's family has money too - her mother and father are lawyers in Bangkok - but it's not the same. She's different, from him, from all of them. She walks to her dorm room at Evelyn Royce House. She looks at her room and thinks Is this really my home for the next four years?