"Yes!" called Estela as she came off the field. "Good win, everybody.” The soccer game was finished and captain
Estela Ramos and her team were the winners.
"Great game!" she said to the young women in the team. They were tired, but very happy. Estela was the captain of the team, and a very good player. “You were very good!” she said.
"You too, Estela!” said her friend Katy.
“Ah, I was OK,” she said. It wasn't her best game ever, she knew, but the team won so she wasn't worried about that.
Estela smiled at her friend. Then she walked to Coach George Gray. “So, how was that?" she asked, smiling. “Hmm. Not bad," said the coach. They walked back to the locker rooms.
“Not bad?" said Estela. “We just won the cup! Did you see it?” The coach was never happy, she thought. It was a great win against Tacoma College, a very good team. “The girls worked really well together,” she said, a little angry. “We did OK, didn't we?"
"Well,” he said. “The team won, yes, but you didn't play well, Estela. You missed a lot of opportunities. And your passing - we must work on your passing. I need more from you ..." Coach Gray went on for some minutes. “Didn't I do anything right?" she asked when he finished. Her face was red now. She knew he was right, and


that made it even worse.
The coach didn't speak. He seemed to be thinking about that. "Aghh!" she said. She ran away from Coach Gray and into the locker room.
*********
In the locker room, Estela was really angry. We won, she thought. Why can't he say something nice? The other girls were happy, and Estela tried to look happy, too. She tried to forget about the coach. “We're going to eat at Ben's, Estela," said Katy. “Coming?" “No," she said, “not now. Maybe I'll come later." “OK," said Katy. Then she and the other girls went to the café. Five minutes later, Estela came out of the locker room. She didn't want to see Coach Gray again.
Gray wasn't there, but when she came out of the door of the locker room, Estela saw a man of about thirty years old with black hair. He wore a very smart dark blue suit and tie. The suit looked expensive, she thought. He
was very good-looking.