It began with a visit to the doctor. You need a holiday, the doctor told me. You need a rest.'
'I can't take a holiday,' I answered. I'm too busy! 'No, Liz, said the doctor. “You don't understand. If you don't take a holiday, you're going to get very, very ill! I'm just tired,' I said. 'I feel tired! 'No,' he said. 'It's more than that. Are you doing too much? You teach, don't you?' 'Well, yes, I said. I'm teaching and studying archaeology at the university! 'What else are you doing?' he asked me.
I'm learning to speak Greek,' I replied. “And I'm writing a book!
'I see,' he said. You're learning to speak Greek, you're writing a book and you're working at the university. Don't you think that's too much? How many hours do you sleep at night?'
'Four or five hours most nights,' I told him. It's not enough,' he said. “You need to slow down. Is your husband here in Greece with you?" the doctor
asked.
'No, I told the doctor. I was married but my husband left me. Last year! 'I understand, said the doctor. 'No, I thought, 'you don't really understand. Because you don't know that my husband left me and went to


live with one of his students. Because you don't know that I am still very angry. I am both angry and sad. You don't understand because you don't know that I had to leave London to be away from my husband who is still working at London University!
Only a year ago everything was wonderful. I had a good job in London. I had a wonderful husband. I loved him and he loved me. Or, I thought he loved me. But then I found out that he was actually in love with someone
else.
My wonderful world wasn't real.
But that was a year ago. Now I lived in Greece and had a job I enjoyed. And I had a wonderful, kind boss, Stavros. Stavros looks like a big animal and has a black beard. But he's a very good archaeologist. Sometimes I think that he can feel what is under the earth, even before he begins to look for it. And he's very kind. I love
working for him.
After I left the doctor's I went to see Stavros at the university.
Stavros is very big man, but his office is so untidy that sometimes it's hard to find him. As usual there were pots and bits of pots all over his desk. Stavros knows almost everything about Greek pots. Every day I spend with him, I learn something. When I walked into his office, he was looking through a magnifying glass. 'Oh!' I said. “You've got that pot again. That's great.' Stavros put down the magnifying glass.

'Yes,' he replied. 'The police gave the pot to me this morning. Two men were trying to take it out of the country. The police caught them at the airport.'
'That's wonderful,' I said. “It's a lovely pot. It belongs here in Greece. In a museum.'