My name is David Copperfield and I was born in the county of Suffolk, in the east of England. This book is the story of my life. Will I be the hero of my own story? You must read it and decide for yourself.
I never knew my father. He died before I was born. When this story begins, my mother had been a widow for six months.
She was living in our big old house in a little village called Blunderstone. One afternoon in March, my mother was sitting by the fire, crying quietly to herself. Her baby would be born soon-a baby that would never know its father. My mother felt lonely and sad.
The room was very quiet. Then, suddenly, there was a tapping sound at the window. My mother, who was easily frightened, looked up quickly.
There was an old lady in the garden. She was looking in at the window, with her face pressed against the glass. My mother stood up and her heart began to beat very fast. She was so frightened, that she almost fainted.
'Who is it? What do you want?' she whispered.
The old lady, who was tall and thin, tapped on the window again. She was wearing spectacles and her bonnet was very old-fashioned. My mother, who had now recognized the old lady, hurried to open the front door.
The old lady spoke first. 'You must be Clara-Mrs David Copperfield,' she said in a sharp voice. 'I am Miss Trotwood-Miss Betsy


Trotwood. We haven't met before. But I'm sure you have heard of me. I am your late husband's aunt'
'Yes, yes, of course,' my mother replied. Please come in.' Miss Betsy Trotwood followed my mother into the sitting room and sat down by the fire.
'Your husband told you about me, didn't he?' the old lady asked.
My mother nodded. 'Yes, he did, she said. “My dear husband-your nephew-often talked about his Aunt Betsy. He spoke of you just before he died. My poor mother began to cry again.
'Well, here I am, Miss Betsy said. “Sit down, child. Let me look at you.' My mother was very pretty, with a sweet, pale face and long, fair curls.
Aunt Betsy shook her head sadly and gently touched my mother's pretty hair. When are you expecting your child?' the old lady asked. “You are not much more than a baby yourself.' My mother began to cry more than ever.
Very soon,' she said. 'I am so frightened. I am afraid that I shall die and my baby too!' 'Nonsense,' Miss Betsy said. “You won't die and neither will your little girl!
'The baby may be a boy, my mother said quietly.
'I don't think so,' Miss Betsy replied. I'm sure that the baby will be a girl. Her name will be Betsy Trotwood Copperfield. I will help you look after her, I will teach her to think for herself!' 'Thank you,' my mother whispered.