Some years ago, on a wet and miserable November day, I decided to get on a ship and sail to different parts of the world.
There was nothing to interest me on shore and I was feeling irritable and bad-tempered. Whenever I feel like
this, I know that it is time for me to go to sea again. Not as a passenger though.
For that you need money, and I never have enough. Nor as a ship's captain, for I do not want to be responsible for other men.
It is as much as I can do to be responsible for myself. When I go to sea, I go as an ordinary sailor.
So I packed my old bag and left Manhattan to go to New Bedford, where I would get a boat to the island of Nantucket.
Why Nantucket? Because this time I was going to look for work on a whaling ship! It was my dream to hunt and catch a whale, that magnificent and mysterious creature of the sea. And all the biggest and best whaling ships sailed out of Nantucket Island, off the coast of Massachusetts.
I arrived in New Bedford on a Saturday night in December. I went straight to the docks but was disappointed to discover that the little boat for Nantucket had already sailed. There would not be another boat to the island until Monday. I had very little money with me, for I had hoped to find a ship quickly. Now I had to find somewhere to eat


and sleep, so I began to walk through the streets. Snow covered the ground and the ice-cold wind blew into my face. I passed several inns but they looked too expensive, so I went back down to the docks again.
Here, in these dark and nearly empty streets, were the cheapest places to get a bed for the night. After a time, a sign appeared over my head in the darkness. It hung outside an old wooden building.
The place looked suitable, so I pushed open the door and went inside. I stepped into a long, badly lit room with blackened walls.
There were harpoons and spears fixed to the walls, and a large painting of a whale and whaling ships. I found Peter Coffin, the landlord, and explained that I needed a room for two nights.
'Every room and every bed is occupied, Coffin told me. “But you could share a bed with a harpooner. Are you going whaling?'
'Yes, I am, I answered. 'Then you'd better get used to sharing a bed,' he said. 'All right,' I replied. I was tired, and it was too cold and dark to walk the streets in a strange town to look for
another place to stay.
Soon after, the landlord brought me a supper of meat and potatoes and boiling hot tea. It was very good. 'Where's the harpooner who will share my bed?' I asked him when I had finished eating.