Mr Sniggs, the Assistant Dean, and Mr Postlethwaite, the Domestic Bursar, sat alone in Mr Sniggs' room in Scone College. They were the only dons who were at home that evening. Their colleagues were at parties in Oxford, or visiting friends, or attending meetings at other colleges, because it was the night of the annual Bollinger Club dinner-always a difficult time for those responsible for university discipline.
In fact, it is not accurate to call this an annual event, because quite often so much trouble is caused that the
Club does not meet again for some years. There is tradition behind the Bollinger; it takes its name from the famous champagne, and past members include men who are now heads of royal families. The last dinner was three years ago. What a wild, destructive night that had been! This was the first meeting since then, and old members had poured into Oxford from all over Europe especially for the occasion-foreign royalty, country gentlemen, Scottish landowners, smooth young businessmen, ambitious lawyers and politicians- to join those who were currently students at this great university.
The party had already started. Mr Postlethwaite and Mr Sniggs could hear the sound of confused shouting and breaking of glass from Sir Alastair Digby-Vane-Trumpington's rooms. They listened eagerly, looking out of the window into the courtyard.
'The fines!' said Mr Sniggs, as he lit his pipe. 'Oh, yes! The fines they'll have to pay after this evening!' There is some excellent port that is only served to


dons when College fines have reached £50.
'We shall have a week of it, at least,' said Mr Postlethwaite. 'A week of College port!' Louder noises were now coming from Sir Alastair's rooms-a frightening sound for those who have heard it before, the hunting cry of the ancient English families. Soon they would all be rushing into the courtyard, red-faced and shouting, ready for the real fun of the evening.
'Don't you think it might be wiser if we turned off the light?' said Mr Sniggs. In darkness the two men crept to the window. The courtyard below was already a sea of scarcely recognizable
faces.
'There must be fifty of them at least!' said Mr Postlethwaite. 'If only they were all members of the College! Fifty of them at ten pounds each!
'Oh!' It'll be more if they attack the Chapel, said Mr Sniggs. 'Oh, please God, make them attack the Chapel! 'I wonder who the unpopular students are this year. The Bollinger always attack their rooms. I hope they've been wise enough to go out for the evening!
'There's Austen - he has a beautiful piano, I'm told. And Partridge will be another one. I think he collects French paintings!


'Lord Rending can afford to hunt, but he collects teapots instead. And Sanders has won prizes for his poems, you know.'
'There'll be a heavy bill for tonight, just you see! But I must say I'd feel happier if some of our colleagues were here. The Bollinger can't see us from here, can they?'
It was a lovely evening. They smashed Austen's piano, destroyed Partridge's French paintings, broke Sanders' windows and Rending's teapots. Sir Alastair felt quite ill with excitement, and had to be helped to his bed. It was half-past eleven. Soon the evening would come to an end. But there was still something to look forward to.
