The streets of Manhattan were busy, as usual. It was a late afternoon in October. Tall buildings stood outlined against a pale blue sky. On the twentieth floor of one of the tall buildings a man stood by an open window. He
looked down at the streets far below.
He took a deep breath.
He jumped.

***

Twenty four hours later, Joe Faust sat at a desk in the same building. He was a few floors down from the twentieth floor. His tie was undone and his face was damp with sweat. I've bought thousands of shares for my clients, he thought, and if that computer screen doesn't show a rise in their price soon I'm in big trouble!
Joe Faust was a city trader. He bought shares on the internet for his clients for as low a price as possible, then he sold them for as high a price as possible. He was always looking for a profit. Joe and his company got a percentage of the profits he made for his clients. But Joe had spent all the money he had been allowed on the shares he saw on the screen in front of him. He was so confident they would make a profit that he had spent even more than he was allowed Joe knew it was risky. The company didn't like losing money. Not one bit.


"Come on! You just have to come up in price!” he shouted out to the screen. His hand was held over the computer keyboard. He was ready to push the key that would mean the sale of all the shares he had bought. If the
shares went down any more in price he could lose his job.
At last they didn't go down any more. But Joe didn't push the key yet. He waited for a few minutes. “Come on!” he shouted. Finally, the shares went up in price. They went up again. And again. And again. Then they stayed still.
"Now!" Joe pushed down on the key and sold all the thousands of shares he had bought in an instant. "Yes!” he yelled with delight. “Oh, yes!”
Joe was still laughing to himself when the phone rang. It was his boss, Brad Benson. “Joe, I want you in my office, now!"
"I wonder what that's all about,” Joe thought to himself, as he stood up. He hoped he wasn't in trouble. Even making money could get you into trouble if you didn't play by the rules. Unless, of course, you made enough. Joe fastened his tie and left.
A few minutes later Joe Faust was in the office of his boss, Brad Benson. Brad Benson was sitting behind his oak desk. He was about forty years old. Most of the hair on his head was gone though he did have a thick, brown


moustache growing on his upper lip. Joe admired the expensive Italian suit his boss was wearing. He wished he'd
put on something better than his sports jacket.