Meg stood with her hands in her pockets, looking out of the studio window. The heater wasn't working and she had a blanket over her shoulders to keep out the cold. The wind was coming up from the lake and blowing around
the outside of the studio. She watched her husband, Ben, as he played in the garden with Jack, their two year
old son. Father and son both wore ski-jackets to keep out the cold. Jack laughed as Ben lifted him high into the air. Their brown and white dog ran over and jumped up, wanting to play.
Meg wanted to go out and join in the game. Instead she glanced over her shoulder at her unfinished painting. It was in the center of the studio, waiting for her. She knew she should get back to work, but still she stayed by the window. Her husband waved and carried their son in the direction of the lake. Meg smiled at her son's shouts of delight; he loved the water.
With a sigh, Meg turned and walked back to the painting. It was nearly finished, she knew, but she wasn't satisfied. The picture showed the covered bridge that Meg could see from her studio window. She looked out of the window at the river as it reflected the cold morning sky. Then she studied the painting again. It needed more white, she thought. Picking up her paintbrush, she started to paint.
The wooden bridges were famous in New Hampshire. Tourists came from all over the world to see them. Meg first got interested in them eight months earlier, when she and Ben moved to the area from New York. Now most of


her paintings were of the bridges in different seasons and different lights.
By the time she finished painting, it was almost one o'clock. She stood back and studied the picture, it wasn't perfect but it was certainly better. She washed the paint from her hands and was drying them when the telephone
rang. Putting down the towel, she answered it.
"Meg, I've got some great news,” announced the voice on the other end of the line.
"Hi Gloria, what's got you so excited?" Meg asked, smiling at the sound of her friend's voice. Gloria was a cheerful forty-five year old who owned a gallery in town where Meg sold her paintings.
"You know Avant Garde Magazine?" "Avant Garde? Isn't that an art magazine?"
"Not an art magazine, Meg, it's the art magazine - one of the most important in New York.” Gloria didn't wait for Meg to reply before continuing breathlessly, “And they want to interview you."
"Me?" Meg's eyes were wide, “There must be some mistake.” "No, there's no mistake. They called me a minute ago.”
"But why do they want to interview me?" Meg sat down on an old chair next to the window and brushed her dark hair back from her face.