Early Ball Games

soldiers played on a rectangular pitch, with lines marking the 
two  halves.  Only  the  player  with  the  ball  could  be  tackled. 
The fans  shouted out  advice as they do  today: ‘Too far! Too 
short! Pass it back!’ 

A Roman ball game in Rome, Italy, in the second century BC

When the Romans invaded Britain in the first century AD, 
they  played  the  game  there  too.  We  do  not  know  how  the 
players scored goals, but a record12 of one game tells us that the 
Roman soldiers won: 

England 1– Italy 3 perhaps 

How Football Began in England

The  Romans  left  England  at  the  beginning  of  the  fifth 

century AD, but the game of football stayed. 
As time went on, the game was played with very few rules 
and a great number of people. Football was often just an excuse 
for  the  young  men  of  one  town  or  village  to  fight  those  of 
another. The players were more likely to kick each other than 
the  ball.  This  often  led  to  trouble  and  football  became  very 
noisy and dangerous. 

In 1314, the mayor of London banned football in his city. 
The kings of England did not like the game either. They wanted 
young men to practise archery13 in their free time. Their bows 
and  arrows  were  needed  in  the  Hundred  Years’  War,  to  kill 
French soldiers. Football was not useful at all. 

By 1555, football was banned in the Universities of Oxford 
and  Cambridge  too.  Then,  in  1581,  the  headmaster  of  a  big 
English school thought that he could see some good in football. 
He believed that with smaller teams, a strict referee and a few 
rules,  the  game  could  become  a  healthy  way  of  passing  the 
time.  And  it  could  teach  boys  to  play  together  and  learn  to 
obey orders.

Nearly  one  hundred  years  later,  a  man  called  Francis 
Willoughby wrote the Book of Sports. He described the game of 
football in a way we can recognize today. He wrote about the 
pitch and the goals – or ‘gates’ – defended14 by the best players. 
The main aim was to get the first goal, and high tackles were 
not allowed.

 
Young men went on playing football, but there were not many 
places where they could play because football had been banned 

How Football Began in England

from  the  streets.  But  rich  boys  in  some  big  English  schools 
played the game. One of these schools was called Rugby. The 
school had big fields where lots of boys could play football at 
the same time. 

Then, in 1823, a football player at Rugby School took the 
ball in his hands and ran with it. And so the game of rugby 
football – or rugger – began. In this game, hard tackles were 
allowed and several players would fight for the ball. ‘Hacking’  
– kicking the shins of players in the other team – was allowed 
too.

Other  schools,  like  Charterhouse  School,  had  no  fields 
where  they  could  play  rugger.  So  Charterhouse  decided  that 
the ball could not be carried. Kicking people, rather than the 
ball, was not allowed either.

A  few  years  later,  working  men,  mostly  in  the  north  of 
England,  started  playing  this  original  form  of  football.  Men 
who worked in the big factories there wanted to play football 
with their friends in their free time.

The  first  football  club  in  the  world  was  started  in  the 
northern English city of Sheffield. The club made its own rules 
– the ‘Sheffield Rules’. When other clubs were formed, their 
rules were different. Soon all the clubs agreed that their teams 
had to play using the same rules.

In  1863,  people  from  schools  and  clubs  all  over  England 
met in a pub in London. They wanted to agree on the rules 
of football. There were many issues to talk about: should the 
ball  be  carried  or  not?  Was  hacking  allowed?  After  a  lot  of 
talking,  the  men  who  wanted  to  say  yes  to  these  questions 
walked out. They wanted to play rugby football or rugger. The 
men who stayed decided to work together and so the Football 
Association15 was founded.

Over the next few months, the Football Association agreed 
on fourteen rules. They also agreed on the weight and size of 
the ball and the size of the pitch. 


Only the goalkeeper could touch the ball with his hands. 
Kicking someone’s legs, rather than the ball, was not allowed 
and players could not trip each other up16. They could not use 
their  hands  to  push  or  hold  their  opponents17  either.  Some 
modern players should remember these last three rules!

Football  soon  began  to  be  called  soccer  from  the  word 
‘association’.  The  important  thing  was  that  the  game  could 
now be played in the same way anywhere in the country.

A football game using FA rules, England, in the 1800s



The first game to be played using the Football Association’s 
rules was in 1865. Sheffield FC had a match with Nottingham 
FC, a club in the English Midlands. During this time, more and 
more clubs were being formed all over England and Scotland. 
By 1873, fifty clubs had joined the FA. 

These  clubs  did  not  have  much  money.  The  young  men 
who joined them worked hard at their jobs in factories, offices 
and shops all week. They played football in their free time and 
they were not paid for it. They were amateurs – they played for 
fun and because they enjoyed the game. They played anywhere 
they could. Their friends came to watch them and everyone 
had a great time. 

 
So the game of football – or soccer – now had rules. The game 
was  beginning  to  look  more  and  more  like  modern  football, 
but some things were different.

The  goals  had  no  crossbar  and  no  net,  just  two  upright 
posts.  There  were  corner  flags  though  and  corner  kicks  and 
goal kicks were already part of the game.  

There had been referees since 1840, but the referees shouted 
at  the  players  because  they  did  not  have  a  whistle.  Referees 
were not given whistles until 1878. They did not have any red 
or  yellow  cards  in  their  pocket  either.  These  cards  were  not 
used until nearly one hundred years later.

There  were  other  differences  too.  The  ball  was  made  of 
leather and it was very heavy. All the players in the team wore 
shirts of the same colour, so that the spectators could recognize 
them. The players’ shirts had no numbers, no names and no 
sponsors’18  logos!  Their  dark  leather  boots  were  heavy  too. 
But the teams played a game that we can recognize – it was 
football!



In  1888,  the  world’s  first  football  league  was  founded  in 

This league, known as the First Division, was made up of 
twelve  clubs.  These  clubs,  the  best  in  England,  played  each 
other  twice  every  season.  Lower  leagues  were  formed  in  the 
same way. 

Before the end of the nineteenth century, some important 
changes were made to the game. Goal nets were used for the 
first time in 1890 and in 1891, penalty kicks were allowed. But 
it was not until 1905 that the goalkeeper had to stand on his 
line for them.

By  1894,  only  one  referee  was  needed  for  every  game, 
though he had two linesmen – now called assistant referees – 
to help him.

In 1898, the number of official rules of the game became 
seventeen.  Although  some  of  the  rules  have  changed  since 
then – they were modernized in 1938 and are revised19 every 
season – the number is still the same.

Before the First World War (1914–18) all the teams in the 
First Division played for clubs in the north of England and the 
Midlands. After the war, some teams from London – Arsenal, 
Chelsea, Fulham and Tottenham – joined the division.

 
Soon football was being played in many countries. The game 
was becoming more and more popular with fans in England and 
Scotland too. They took it very seriously and they supported 
their teams every week.



At  first,  fans  could  not  afford  to  travel  to  away  matches, 
but they still watched a game every week. They watched their 
club’s first team one week and its reserves’ team the next. As 
more and more fans went to matches, the big clubs began to 
build special places – stadiums – where the fans could watch 
the games being played. 

The first stadiums were built where the fans lived, so they 
were  near  houses  and  shops.  The  fans  had  to  pay  to  see  the 
games, so walls and gates were built too. At first, other games 
were sometimes played there, but most stadiums were used just 
for football. 

The clubs wanted as many fans as possible to see their home 
matches.  So  wooden  terraces  were  built  where  people  could 
stand in rows. 

At half time, the fans wanted something to eat and drink. 

So the clubs began to sell food and drink too.

Scotland  was  slightly  ahead  of  England  in  building  
stadiums. Rangers built theirs at Ibrox, Glasgow, in 1887 and 
Celtic, their close rivals20, built one in 1892.

1892  was  also  the  year  in  which  the  first  purpose-built 
stadium – a stadium built only for playing football – opened 
in  England.  It  was  at  Goodison  Park,  the  home  of  Everton 
Football Club, in Liverpool. This stadium had high terraces on 
all four sides of the pitch. 

In  time,  every  important  club  had  its  own  stadium,  filled 
with its own fans. But the ‘away fans’ – fans who had come to 
see their team play in a different city – were there too. 

Today,  only  a  limited  number  of  fans  are  allowed  to  buy 
tickets  when  their  club  is  playing  away.  For  Premier  League 
games, this is five per cent of the total number of seats in the 
stadium and it is fifteen per cent for cup matches. 

The away fans must all sit in one part of the stadium. Then 
they can all cheer and chant21 together. This arrangement also 
stops arguments between the two groups of fans.