ROOM 13

Viborg is a city in Denmark. It is an old city, but it has only
a few old buildings. A great fire destroyed most of the old
town in 1726.

Mr  Anderson  was  writing  a  book  on  the  history  of
Denmark. He went to Viborg in 1891. He wanted to study
the history of the town.

He  stayed  in  an  old  building  in  Viborg  –  The  Golden

Lion Inn. The inn was nearly 350 years old.

Anderson  asked  the  landlord  for  a  large  room.  The
landlord of The Golden Lion showed him two rooms – room
number  12  and  room  number  14.  There  were  three  large
windows in each room. The windows looked onto the street.
Anderson chose room number 12.

In  the  evening,  Anderson  went  downstairs  for  supper.
He  saw  a  blackboard.  The  names  of  all  the  guests  were
written on the blackboard. Anderson saw that the inn was
full.  There  were  no  empty  rooms.  Anderson  noticed  that
there was no room number 13.

Thirteen  is  an  unlucky  number.  Many  people  do  not

want to stay in a room with an unlucky number.

When Anderson went upstairs to bed, he tried to unlock
his door. It did not open. Then he saw that he had made a
mistake. It was the wrong room. The number on the door
was number 13.

He heard someone moving inside the room.
‘I’m  very  sorry,’  he  said  and  went  to  the  door  of  room

number 12.

Perhaps  the  servants  sleep  in  room  13,  Anderson
thought. He decided to ask the landlord about it the next
day.



Anderson  lit  the  oil-lamp  and  looked  round.  Room
number  12  looked  smaller  by  lamplight.  Anderson  was
tired. He went to bed.

In the morning, Anderson went to the Town Hall. He
wanted  to  study  the  town  records.  Anderson  read  many
very old papers. The oldest records were from the sixteenth
century.

There  were  some  letters  from  the  Bishop  of  Viborg,
dated 1560. The Bishop had owned three or four houses in
the  city.  He  had  rented  a  house  to  a  man  called  Nicolas
Francken.

The  townspeople  of  Viborg  did  not  like  Nicolas
Francken.  Some  people  wrote  to  the  Bishop  to  say  that
Francken  was  a  bad  man.  They  said  that  Francken  was  a
magician. They wanted Francken to leave the city.

The Bishop said that Nicolas Francken had done nothing

wrong. He did not believe that Francken was a magician.

It was time for the Town Hall to close. As Anderson was

leaving, the town clerk spoke to him.

‘I  see  you  are  reading  about  the  Bishop  and  Nicolas
Francken,’ the clerk said. ‘I am interested in them. But I do
not know where Francken lived. Many of the town records
were burnt in the great fire of 1726.’

Anderson  thanked  the  clerk  and  went  back  to  The
Golden  Lion.  He  wanted  to  ask  the  landlord  about  room
number 13, but the landlord was busy.

Anderson went upstairs and stopped outside the door of
number 13. He heard someone inside the room. The person
was walking around and talking in a strange voice.

Anderson  went  to  his  own  room.  He  decided  that
number 12 was too small. He decided to ask the landlord for
a  large  room.  Also,  he  was  angry  because  his  suitcase  was


missing.  It  had  been  on  a  table  beside  the  wall.  Both  the
table  and  the  suitcase  had  disappeared.  Perhaps  the
landlord had moved the suitcase to a store-room. Anderson
wanted it back.

It  was  too  late  to  call  the  landlord.  Anderson  went  to

the window and lit a cigarette.

He looked out of the window. There was a tall house on
the opposite side of the street. The lamp was behind him.
He saw his shadow on the wall of the house opposite. The
person in room 13 was also standing at the window. Ander-
son saw a second shadow on the wall of the house opposite.
This second shadow was strange. The person in room 13
was wearing a tall, pointed hat. Also, the light from room
13 was red. The light was the colour of blood.

Anderson opened the window and put his head outside.
He  tried  to  see  the  person  in  the  next  room.  He  saw  the
sleeve  of  a  long,  white  coat  – that  was  all.  The  person  in
room 13 suddenly moved away from the window. The red
light went out.

Anderson finished his cigarette. He left the ashtray on
the window ledge. Then he turned out the lamp and went
to bed.

Next morning, the maid brought hot water to the room.

Anderson woke up and remembered his suitcase.

‘Where is my suitcase, please?’ he asked.
The maid laughed and pointed. The suitcase was on the
table  beside  the  wall.  It  was  exactly  where  Anderson  had
left it.

He noticed another strange thing. His ashtray was on the
middle window-ledge.  He  clearly  remembered  smoking  his
cigarette by the end window – next to number 13.

He finished dressing and decided to visit his neighbour in


 

He tried to see the person in the next room.


room 13. He was surprised when he went to the door of the
next room. The next room was number 14! Anderson was
frightened. Was he going mad?

After breakfast, he went to the Town Hall and read more
of the old papers. He found only one more letter from the
Bishop  about  Nicolas  Francken.  A  group  of  townspeople
had tried to make Francken leave Viborg. They had gone to
Francken’s  house,  but  Francken  had  disappeared.  The
Bishop wrote that no one knew where Flancken had gone.
That was the end of the matter.

That  evening,  Anderson  spoke  to  the  landlord  of  The

Golden Lion Inn.

‘Why is there no room 13 in the inn?’ he asked.
‘Many  people  won’t  sleep  in  a  room  number  13,’  the

landlord replied. ‘They say it’s unlucky.’

‘Then who is in your room number 13?’ asked Anderson.
‘There isn’t a room number 13,’ the landlord said. ‘Your

room is next to room number 14.’

‘Of course,’ said Anderson. ‘I must have made a mistake.
Would  you  like  to  come  up  to  number  12  for  a  glass  of
brandy and a cigar?’

‘I’d like to very much,’ said the landlord.
They  went  upstairs  together.  They  went  past  room

number l0 and room number 11 to reach number 12.
The landlord looked at the inside of number 12.
‘This room looks very small,’ he said.
Anderson  poured  two  glasses  of  brandy.  Both  men  lit

cigars.

Anderson  opened  the  window  to  let  out  the  smoke.
There was a red light and a shadow on the wall of the house
opposite. The light came from number 13. The shadow was
dancing wildly, but there was no noise.


Anderson  sat  down  to  drink  his  brandy.  He  wanted  to
tell  the  landlord  about  the  strange  things  he  had  seen.
Suddenly a terrible noise came from the next room.

‘Is that a cat?’ asked Anderson. ‘Or is there a madman in

the room next door?’

‘It’s  Mr  Jensen,’  said  the  landlord.  ‘He  often  stays  in

room 14. The poor man must be ill.’

A loud knock sounded on the door of Anderson’s room.

Suddenly a man opened the door and came in.

‘Please stop that terrible noise,’ the man said.
‘Mr  Jensen!’  the  landlord  said.  ‘We  thought  you  were

making the noise!’

The three men looked at each other for a moment. Then
they  went  out  quickly  into  the  corridor.  The  noise  was
coming from the door of room number 13!

The landlord banged on the door and turned the handle.

The door was locked.

‘I’ll  bring  men  to  break  the  door  down,’  the  landlord

shouted and ran down the stairs.

Jensen  and  Anderson  stood  outside  number  13.  The

noise inside the room became louder and wilder.

‘I  want  to  tell  you  something  strange,’  Jensen  said  to
Anderson. ‘My room has three windows in the day and only
two at night. Perhaps you think I am mad?’

‘Good Lord! My room is the same!’ said Anderson. ‘My

room looks smaller at night than during the day.’

The  door  of  number  13  opened  suddenly  and  an  arm
came out. The arm was thin and covered in grey hairs. The
fingernails were long and dirty.

Anderson  shouted  and  pulled  Jensen  away  from  the
door. The arm disappeared and the door closed. The sound
of mad laughter came from number 13.


The landlord brought two men up the stairs. The men
had axes in their hands. They swung their axes against the
door of number 13.

Suddenly  the  men  cried  out  and  dropped  their  axes.
They  had  hit  a  wall.  The  door  of  number  13  had  dis-
appeared!

In  the  morning,  workmen  pulled  up  the  floor  between

rooms 12 and 14.

Under the floor they found a box. There were old papers
inside the box. Anderson thought that the papers belonged
to  Nicolas  Francken  – the  man  who  had  disappeared  in
1560.

No one was able to read the writing on the papers. It was
in  a  strange  language.  The  writing  was  brown.  The  ink
looked  old.  But  Anderson  did  not  think  it  was  ink.  He
thought the papers were written in blood!