good  friends  with  Prince  Charles’s  younger  brother, 
Prince Andrew.

Diana’s  mother  and  father  divorced  in  April  1969. 
Frances married Peter Shand Kydd soon after. Diana and 
her brother had holidays with Peter and his three children. 
Later, Frances and Peter bought a big house on the Isle of 
Seil. Seil was an island near the west coast of Scotland.

The Spencer family at Althorp House, 1969. Diana (left) and 
Charles are at the front of the picture

Diana went to a small day school near her home called 
Silfield.  But  when  she  was  nine,  her  father  sent  her  to 
boarding  school.  The  school  was  called  Riddlesworth 
Hall. 

In  September  1973,  when  Diana  was  twelve,  she 
moved to another school called West Heath. West Heath 
was  near  the  town  of  Sevenoaks  in  Kent.  Diana  liked 
her  new  school.  She  had  some  good  friends  there.  She 
learned  to  dance  and  play  the  piano.  She  was  not  very 
interested in school exams, but she was good at dancing 
and swimming.

At  this  time,  Johnnie  Althorp  met  a  new  woman. 
Her name was Raine Legge, the Countess of Dartmouth. 
Raine was also the writer Barbara Cartland’s daughter.

Raine  was  married  with  four  children.  Johnnie’s 
children loved their father very much and they did not 
want him to be with another woman. 

Then, on the 9th of June 1975, Johnnie’s father, Jack, 
died.  Jack  was  the  seventh  Earl  Spencer.  Now  Johnnie 
became the eighth Earl Spencer and Diana became ‘Lady 
Diana  Spencer’.  Johnnie  and  his  family  went  to  live  in 
his father’s great house at Althorp in Northampton.

The Spencer children did not like Althorp very much. 
It was a very big house in a large park. It had 121 rooms. It 
was a beautiful house but it was also very cold. It was not 
a ‘home’ like Park House. 

Raine started to come to Althorp a lot. In May 1976, 
Raine  and  her  husband  divorced.  Two  months  later,  in 
July,  Johnnie  and  Raine  married  quietly  in  London. 
Johnnie did not tell his children about the wedding. They 
read about it in the newspapers.

The  Spencer  children  were  very  angry  with  their 
father. Now Raine lived at Althorp all the time. Diana 
loved her father, but he was now married to Raine. This 
was very difficult for Diana.

Many of Raine and Johnnie’s friends visited Althorp. 
They had a lot of parties there. But the Spencer girls were 
always cold to Raine. In 1978, Johnnie was very ill and 
was  close  to  death.  Raine  looked  after  him  and  helped 
save his life. Johnnie was lucky and he got better. But still 
the children did not like Raine.

Prince Charles was born on the 14th of November 1948 
at  Buckingham  Palace.  He  is  the  oldest  of  the  Queen’s 
four children. He is also the Prince of Wales. After the 

The Prince
King or Queen dies, the Prince of Wales usually becomes 
king. So Charles is ‘heir to the throne’, or the next king.
When he was a boy, Charles was very shy. He went first 
to a day school in London. Later his parents sent him to 
Gordonstoun, a boarding school in north-east Scotland. 
Life for Charles at Gordonstoun was very hard. Charles 
was sad there and did not have any friends. He did not see 
his parents very often.

Later, Charles went to Cambridge University. Then he 
was an officer in the Royal Navy – the part of the armed 
forces that works at sea. He was in the navy for five years. 
He was a pilot and flew planes and helicopters. 

Charles enjoyed horse riding, and loved playing polo – 
a game for people riding on horses. He also liked hunting 
and shooting animals, for example birds and deer, with a 
gun.

Prince Charles playing polo in Kenya, February 1971

When  Charles  was  twenty-three,  in  the  summer  of 
1970,  he  met  Camilla  Shand  at  a  polo  match.  Camilla 
was fifteen months older than Charles. Camilla was pretty 
and fun. She liked the same things as Charles. She loved 
horses, dogs, the countryside and hunting.

Charles  and  Camilla  spent  weekends  together  at 
the  home  of  Earl  Mountbatten.  Earl  Mountbatten  was 
Charles’s  father’s  uncle.  Charles  was  very  close  to  Earl 
Mountbatten. He called the Earl ‘Grandpa’. 

But  Camilla  married  another  young  man  called 
Andrew Parker Bowles in July 1973. After that, Charles 
had many girlfriends. The newspapers started calling him 
‘the Playboy Prince’. 

Charles  liked  tall,  blonde  women.  Some  of  his 
girlfriends  were  Davina  Sheffield,  Anna  Wallace  and 
Mountbatten’s granddaughter, Amanda Knatchbull. 

Charles  also  had  friends  who  were  married  women. 
One of these was an Australian woman called Dale Tryon 
(her friends called her ‘Kanga’, like the Australian animal 
‘kangaroo’). 

But the most important woman friend for Charles was 

still Camilla Parker Bowles.

Camilla and Andrew Parker Bowles were now married 
with  two  children.  Andrew  Parker  Bowles  knew  about 
his wife’s friendship with Prince Charles, but he was not 
unhappy  about  it.  In  fact,  Andrew  and  Prince  Charles 
were friends.

Then  something  exciting  happened.  Sarah  Spencer, 
Diana’s  older  sister,  met  Prince  Charles  at  a  party  at 

Windsor  Castle  in  the  summer  of  1977.  She  went  to 
watch  the  Prince  playing  polo.  Later,  they  went  on  a 
skiing  holiday  together.  The  Queen  invited  Sarah  to 
Balmoral, the Royal Family’s Scottish home. 

That  November,  Sarah  invited  Prince  Charles  to 
Althorp for the weekend. Diana was there too. She first 
met  Prince  Charles  in  the  countryside  near  her  home. 
She was just sixteen years old. 

In  April  1978,  Diana’s  sister,  Jane,  got  married.  Her 
husband was Robert Fellowes, the son of a Norfolk family. 
Later, Robert Fellowes had a very important job. He was 
private secretary to the Queen – helping her and working 
very closely with her. 

Sarah’s  romance  with  Prince  Charles  ended.  On  the 
14th of November 1978 the Prince had a dance for his 
thirtieth  birthday  at  Buckingham  Palace.  He  invited 
Sarah but he invited Diana too. Diana was very surprised 
and excited. She liked Prince Charles very much.

Mountbatten  wanted  Charles  to  marry  and  have 
children.  Charles  usually  listened  to  Mountbatten,  but 
he did not want to get married. He did not need a wife. 
He liked painting pictures and he liked reading books. He 
had his girlfriends. He also had servants – or people who 
worked for him – to do things for him. 

Then  in  1979  the  IRA  (Irish  Republican  Army) 
killed Earl Mountbatten with a bomb in his fishing boat. 
Mountbatten was dead and Charles was shocked and very 
sad. ‘I have lost someone very special in my life,’ he said. 

The Fairy Story Begins

Diana was now a young woman of seventeen. She wanted 
to go and live in London. Both her sisters, Sarah and Jane, 
lived there. They worked for Vogue magazine. But Diana 
was not interested in a job that paid lots of money. She 
loved children and was very good with them. So she went 
to London and found jobs looking after children.

Diana was very happy with her new life. Her mother, 
Frances, had a flat in Cadogan Square – a very wealthy 
part of London. Diana lived in the flat with two girlfriends. 
In July 1979 her mother bought her a flat in London for 
her eighteenth birthday. The address was 60 Coleherne 
Court,  Chelsea.  Diana  lived  there  with  three  friends 
– Carolyn Pride (or Carolyn Bartholomew after she was 
married), Anne Bolton and Virginia Pitman.

Diana enjoyed London. She did not like parties, but 
sometimes she went to dances at country houses. But she 
liked  sitting  at  home  and  watching  television  with  her 
girlfriends.

In  May  1980,  Diana’s  sister,  Sarah,  married  Neil 
McCorquodale, an officer in the army. The married couple 
lived  in  Chelsea  too,  near  Diana.  Diana  often  went  to 
Sarah’s house. Sometimes Sarah paid Diana to clean her 
house for her.

Diana was now nineteen years old. She was a happy, 

pretty young woman. Life was good for her.

Diana met Charles again in July 1980 at a house party 
in  West  Sussex.  He  invited  her  to  go  with  him  on  the 
royal yacht – a large boat called Britannia. They were on 
the boat at Cowes in the Isle of Wight, an island off the 
south  of  England.  Later,  in  September,  Prince  Charles 
invited Diana to stay at Balmoral in Scotland. He invited 
some  other  friends,  too,  but  they  were  all  much  older 
than Diana. Diana’s sister, Jane, and her husband, Robert 
Fellowes, were there. Camilla and Andrew Parker Bowles 
were there too. 

Charles  started  seeing  Diana  more  and  more.  The 
newspapers were very interested in Charles’s romantic life. 
Soon,  they  knew  all  about  his  beautiful  new  girlfriend. 
One story in The Sun newspaper said, ‘He’s in love again! 
Lady Di is the New Girl for Charles!’

The  newspaper  reporters  –  the  people  who  write 
the  stories  for  newspapers  –  came  to  Diana’s  flat  at  60 
Coleherne  Court  in  London.  They  waited  outside.  All 
the reporters wanted to take photographs of her. Diana 
was always nice to the reporters. The reporters liked her, 
and became her friends. The newspapers started calling 
her ‘Shy Di’.

On  the  14th  of  November  1980  Charles  was  thirty-
two years old. The newspapers and Charles’s family asked 
the  same  question  –  ‘Is  Prince  Charles  going  to  marry 
Lady Diana?’

In  January  1981  Charles  went  on  a  skiing  holiday 
to  Klosters  in  Switzerland.  When  he  was  there,  he 
telephoned  Diana.  ‘I’ve  got  something  to  ask  you,’  he 

said. Diana was very excited. She sat with her girlfriends 
very late at night talking about Prince Charles.

When  Charles  returned  from  his  holiday,  he  asked 
Diana  to  marry  him.  Diana  said,  ‘yes’.  On  the  24th  of 
February 1981, Buckingham Palace told the country that 
Charles, Prince of Wales, was going to marry Lady Diana 
Spencer. Charles and Diana gave a television interview 
in the garden of Buckingham Palace.

‘Can  you  find  the  right  words  to  say  how  you  feel 

today?’ asked the interviewer.

‘Difficult to find the right sort of words,’ said Charles. 

‘Just delighted and happy …’

‘And I suppose in love?’ asked the interviewer.
‘Of course,’ said Diana shyly.
‘Whatever “in love” means,’ Charles answered.
Two  nights  later,  Diana  went  to  live  at  Buckingham 

Palace. 

Most  people  in  Britain  were  very  happy  about 
Charles and Diana. People liked reading about Charles’s 
girlfriends, but now it was time for him to marry. Everyone 
was excited about the royal wedding. 

Many  people  thought  that  Diana  was  the  perfect 
wife  for  Charles.  She  was  a  beautiful  young  girl  –  tall 
and  blonde.  She  was  very  sweet  and  shy.  And  –  very 
importantly  for  the  Royal  Family  –  Prince  Charles  was 
her first boyfriend. Because of this, the newspapers could 
not write stories about Diana and other boyfriends.

Camilla  was  also  happy  about  Diana.  Camilla  was 
married and had a husband, Andrew Parker Bowles. She 