‘We  are  poor,’  said  Meg,  the  eldest  girl.  ‘It  is
terrible.’  Meg  was  very  pretty.  She  had  large  eyes  and
soft brown hair.

‘Other  girls  have  lots  of  pretty  things,’  said  Amy,
the youngest girl. Amy had golden hair and blue eyes. 
‘I hate girls’ work and girls’ things,’ said Jo. She was
tall and thin. She had beautiful, long red hair. ‘I don’t
want to stay at home,’ she said. ‘I want to fight in the
war.’

Then  Beth  spoke.  ‘Yes,  we  are  poor,’  she  said.  ‘But
we are lucky too. We have Father and Mother and we
have each other.’

Beth  was  very  shy.  She  was  afraid  of  strangers  but

she loved her family very much. 

‘Yes,  we  have  each  other,’  said  Jo.  And  the  girls

were happy again.

‘It’s  six  o’clock!’  said  Meg.  ‘Be  quick,  everybody!

Mother is coming! We must get supper ready.’

Jo  brought  more  wood  for  the  fire.  Meg  lit  the

lamps. Beth and Amy put the food on the table.

The  door  opened  and  Mrs  March  came  into  the
room.  Mrs  March  was  not  beautiful  but  she  was  very
kind  and  good.  Her  daughters  had  a  special  name  for
her. They called her ‘Marmee’.

‘How are you, my dears?’ said Mrs March. ‘Did you

have a good day?’

‘Supper is ready.’

‘Yes, thank you, Marmee,’ replied the four sisters. 
‘Come.  Sit  down  by  the  fire,  Marmee,’  said  Meg.

After  supper,  Mrs  March  said,  ‘Girls,  I  have  a
wonderful surprise.’

Everybody was excited.
‘Is it a letter from Father?’ asked Jo.
‘Yes,’  replied  Mrs  March.  ‘Father  has  a  Christmas

message for all of you.’

The girls read their father’s letter.

A Wonderful Christmas

A  few  days  later  it  was  Christmas  Day.  On  Christmas
morning,  the  girls  woke  early.  Each  girl  had  one
present  –  a  book  from  their  mother.  They  ran
downstairs. They wanted to thank her. But Mrs March
was not there.

A  special  Christmas  breakfast  was  on  the  table.
There was lots of food and everybody was hungry. But
the  girls  waited  for  their  mother.  They  waited  nearly
an hour. At last, their mother came home.

‘Merry  Christmas,  Marmee!’  the  girls  shouted.

‘Come. Sit down. Let’s eat breakfast.’

‘Merry Christmas, little daughters!’ said Mrs March.
‘Listen!  I  have  something  to  tell  you.  There  is  a  poor
woman – Mrs Hummel. She lives in the town. She has
seven children – one is a baby. The Hummels’ house is
very cold and they have no food. Will you give them a
Christmas present? Will you give them your breakfast?’
All  the  girls  were  very  hungry.  For  a  moment,

nobody spoke.

food to them now.’

Then  Jo  said,  ‘Yes,  we  will,  Marmee.  Let’s  take  the

It  was  early  morning  and  it  was  cold.  The  girls
walked quickly through the snow. They carried baskets
of food and wood for the fire.


The  Hummel  family  lived  in  one  small  room.  The
room was in a house near a river. The windows of the
room were broken and there was no fire. Mrs Hummel
lay  in  her  bed.  She  was  ill.  The  baby  was  crying  and
the children were cold and hungry.

The  Hummel  children  saw  the  March  sisters  and

the baskets of food. They shouted happily.
‘Thank you, thank you!’ they shouted. 
The girls made a fire and they put the food on the
table.  Mrs  March  made  some  tea.  Soon  the  room  was
warm.  The  hungry  children  ate  the  food  and  they
laughed.

Later,  Mrs  March  and  her  daughters  went  home.
They had bread and milk for breakfast. But they were
very happy.

The March sisters often acted in plays. Jo wrote the
plays. The girls acted in a small room at the top of the
house. They put on brightly-coloured clothes and they


enjoyed themselves.

On Christmas evening, the girls acted in a play. All

their friends came. Everybody enjoyed the play. 

Later,  their  friends  went  home  and  the  girls  had  a

lovely surprise. Mrs March called to them.

‘Supper is ready,’ she said.
The girls ran downstairs. They saw lots of delicious
food on the table – cakes, sweets, fruit and ice-cream. 
‘Where  did  this  lovely  food  come  from,  Marmee?’

Mrs  March  smiled.  ‘Old  Mr  Laurence  sent  it,’  she

Amy asked.

replied.

‘Old Mr Laurence, our neighbour?’ asked Meg. She

was surprised. ‘But we don’t know him,’ she said.

‘He  heard  about  your  breakfast,’  said  Mrs  March.

‘He has sent you a special Christmas supper.’

The girls looked at each other.
‘This is a wonderful Christmas,’ Beth said.


Laurie

Next  to  the  Marches’  small  house,  there  was  a  large
house.  The  sisters  called  this  house,  ‘The  Laurence
House’. It belonged to their neighbour, Mr Laurence. 

Mr  Laurence  was  old  and  he  was  very  rich.  His
house  was  very  beautiful.  He  lived  in  the  house  with
his grandson. His grandson was fifteen – the same age
as Jo. Sometimes the March sisters saw Mr Laurence’s
grandson. But the boy was always alone. 

A  few  days  after  Christmas,  Jo  was  in  her  garden.
She  was  wearing  boots  and  an  old  coat.  Jo  was  busy.
She was sweeping snow from the path with a broom. Jo
looked  up  at  the  Laurence  House.  She  saw  a  face
looking  out  of  a  window.  It  was  Mr  Laurence’s
grandson.

‘The boy is sad. He is lonely,’ thought Jo.
Then she had an idea. She took some snow and she
made a ball with it. She threw the ball at the window.
The boy laughed and he opened the window. 

‘Hello!’ called Jo. ‘Are you ill?’
‘I  was  ill  last  week,’  said  the  boy.  ‘I’m  better  now,

but I’m very bored. I am not doing anything.’

‘I’ll visit you!’ said Jo.
‘Yes, please come,’ said the boy.
A few minutes later, Jo knocked on the door of the
Laurence House. She was carrying a small basket. The
basket was full of apples and cakes. 

The boy opened the door and Jo gave him the basket.
‘These things are for you,’ she said. ‘They are from

my mother.’

‘Thank  you  very  much,’  said  the  boy.  ‘Please  come

in. My name is Laurie. And you’re Jo, aren’t you?’

‘Yes,’  said  Jo.  She  was  very  surprised.  ‘How  do  you

know my name?’

‘I  know  your  name,’  said  Laurie.  ‘I  know  all  your

sisters’ names. You call to each other in your garden.’ 

‘Sometimes, I see you with your mother,’ Laurie said
sadly. ‘I have no mother. My parents are dead. So I live
here with my grandfather. But my grandfather is not at
home today.’

‘Laurie is rich but he’s very lonely,’ thought Jo. ‘I am

poor. But I have a family and I have a happy home.’

‘Please visit us,’ said Jo. ‘We are neighbours. Let’s be

friends too.’


Jo  and  Laurie  talked  all  afternoon.  Jo  talked  about
her family. Laurie talked about his life. He did not go
to  school.  A  teacher,  Mr  Brooke,  came  to  the  house
every day. Mr Brooke taught Laurie his lessons. 

‘Come into our library,’ said Laurie. ‘We have many

fine books in the library.’

The library was a beautiful room with big windows.
There  were  hundreds  of  interesting  books  on  the
shelves. There were many fine pictures on the walls.

‘What a wonderful room!’ said Jo.
Suddenly, Laurie and Jo heard a noise. 
‘Grandfather  has  come  home,’  said  Laurie.  ‘I  must

go to him. Please stay here.’

Laurie went out of the library. Jo stood by the fire.
There was a picture of old Mr Laurence on the wall. Jo
looked  at  the  picture.  The  door  of  the  library  opened
but she did not turn round.

‘Laurie,’ she said. ‘Mr Laurence – your grandfather is

not handsome. But he has a kind face. I like him.’

‘Thank you,’ said a voice.
Jo turned round quickly. Mr Laurence was standing

near the door.

‘Oh—’ she said. ‘I am sorry.’
‘So, I’m not handsome?’ asked Mr Laurence.
‘Well – no, sir.’
‘But I have a kind face?’
‘Yes, you do, sir,’ replied Jo.
Mr Laurence laughed. ‘I knew your grandfather,’ he

said. ‘He was a good man. Now, have some tea.’

Laurie was very happy. Laurie and Jo drank tea and

they talked. Mr Laurence watched them.

‘My grandson is happy,’ he thought. ‘He was lonely.

He must have some friends.’ 

Later,  Jo  went  home.  She  told  her  mother  and  her

sisters about the Laurences’ beautiful house.

‘Marmee, please let Laurie visit us,’ she said.
‘Yes,  dear,’  replied  Mrs  March.  ‘Your  new  friend

Laurie will be welcome in our house.’


A Present for Beth

Laurie  and  the  March  sisters  became  good  friends.
They  visited  each  other  often.  They  had  many  happy
days together.

Everybody liked Laurie and his grandfather. Meg, Jo
and  Amy  all  went  to  the  Laurence  House.  Meg  loved
flowers  and  gardens.  She  liked  the  garden  at  the
Laurence  House  very  much.  It  was  winter  and  there
were no flowers. But there was snow on the trees. They
were very beautiful.

Jo  wrote  plays  and  stories.  And  she  loved  books.
She  liked  the  library  at  the  Laurence  House.  Amy
liked  the  library  too.  She  painted  pictures.  She  liked
the paintings on the library walls. 

But Beth did not visit the Laurence House. She was

very shy. She was afraid of old Mr Laurence.

Beth did not go to school. She learnt her lessons at
home.  Beth’s  life  was  quiet,  but  she  was  very  happy.
She helped her mother with the housework. She learnt
her lessons every day.

Beth loved music. The Marches had a piano, but it
was  very  old.  Beth  tried  to  play  the  piano.  But  the
music did not sound very good.

One day, Mr Laurence spoke to Mrs March.
‘Do your daughters play the piano?’ he asked.
‘Beth plays the piano,’ Mrs March replied.