An Early Morning Visitor for Holmes

For many years, I was a good friend of Sherlock Holmes, the

famous private detective1.
During  this  time,  Holmes  solved  many  unusual  mysteries.
But  perhaps  one  of  the  most  unusual  was  the  mystery  of  the
Speckled Band.

The story began in April, 1883. At that time, Holmes and I

were sharing an apartment in Baker Street, in London.

One morning, I woke up very early. To my surprise, Holmes

was standing beside my bed. He was already dressed.

‘What’s happened, Holmes?’ I asked. ‘Is there a fire?’
‘No, Watson,’ replied Holmes. ‘A client2 has just arrived. A
young  lady  is  waiting  downstairs.  She  seems  very  worried  and
upset. I think she has something important to tell me. This could
be an interesting case3, Watson. That’s why I woke you up.’

‘I’ll come at once,’ I said.
I was very interested in Holmes’ cases. My friend was a very

clever detective. I very much admired his work.

So I dressed quickly and went downstairs with Holmes. The
lady was waiting in our sitting-room. She was dressed all in black.
Over her face she wore a veil4.

‘Good morning, madam,’ said Holmes. ‘I’m Sherlock Holmes
and this is Dr Watson, my friend and helper.’ Holmes shut the
door and turned to the lady. ‘You’re shivering, madam,’ he said.
‘You  must  be  cold.  Sit  near  the  fire  and  I’ll  get  you  some  hot
coffee.’


The lady moved nearer the fire. Then she said, ‘It isn’t the

cold which makes me shiver.’

‘What is it, then?’
‘It’s fear, Mr Holmes. It’s terror.’
As she spoke, the lady raised her veil. We saw at once that
she was very frightened. Her eyes were like the eyes of a terrified
animal. She was a young woman, about thirty years old, but her
hair was already turning grey with worry.

Holmes looked at the lady carefully. Then he leant forward

and touched her arm.

‘Don’t be afraid,’ he said kindly. ‘I’m sure we can help you.

But first, please tell us your story.’

‘Mr Holmes,’ said our visitor, ‘I know I’m in terrible danger.

Please tell me what to do!’



I’m  listening  carefully,’  said  Holmes.  So  the  lady  began  her

‘My name,’ she said, ‘is Helen Stoner. My father was an officer
in the Indian army. But he died when I was a baby. After his death,
my  mother,  my  sister  Julia  and  I  continued  to  live  in  India. 
My sister Julia and I were twins5. When Julia and I were only two
years old, my mother married again. She married a man called Dr
Grimesby Roylott. So Dr Roylott became our stepfather.’

‘Tell me about Dr Roylott,’ said Holmes.
‘In  the  past,  Dr  Roylott’s  family  were  very  rich,’  said  Miss
Stoner. ‘But, as the years went by, they lost all their money. Now


Dr Roylott has only a large, old house and a small piece of land.
The house is called Stoke Moran. I’m living at Stoke Moran with
Dr Roylott now.

‘When my stepfather was young, he studied medicine. After
he became a doctor, he went to India. That’s where he met my
mother and later married her.

‘My  mother  was  a  rich  woman,’  went  on  Miss  Stoner.  ‘She 
had a private income6. Every year, she received a sum of about one
thousand  pounds  from  her  bank.  When  she  married  Dr  Roylott, 
an agreement was made about this money.’

‘What was this agreement?’ asked Holmes.
‘If my mother died,’ replied Miss Stoner, ‘Dr Roylott would
inherit7 her  income.  After  her  death,  he  would  receive  one
thousand pounds every year.

‘But if my sister or I married, some of the one thousand pounds

would go to us instead. We would receive part of the money.’

‘I see,’ said Holmes.
‘After  some  years,  we  returned  to  England  from  India,’  con-
tinued  Miss  Stoner.  ‘But  soon  after  we  got  back,  my  mother  was
killed in an accident. At first, all our neighbours at Stoke Moran
were  friendly  with  my  stepfather.  They  were  very  happy  that
someone from the Roylott family was living at Stoke Moran again.
‘But my stepfather didn’t want to make friends with anyone.
Whenever  he  went  out,  he  quarrelled  with  somebody.  He  is  a
very  bad-tempered  man  and  gets  angry  quickly.  Soon,  all  our
neighbours were afraid of him.’

‘Didn’t he have any friends at all?’ asked Holmes.
‘His  only  friends  were  gypsies8,’  said  Miss  Stoner.  ‘These
gypsies  move  round  the  country  in  bands9.  Dr  Roylott  allows
these gypsies to camp on his land.

‘Dr Roylott is also very fond of Indian animals. Two of these
– a cheetah and a baboon10 – were sent to him from India. They
run  around  freely  over  his  land.  Everyone  is  terrified  of  these
dangerous animals.



‘So Julia and I became more and more unhappy,’ went on Miss
Stoner. ‘No servants wanted to live at Stoke Moran so we had to
do all the work. When Julia died . . .’

‘Your sister is dead, then?’ asked Holmes. At once, he became

very interested.

‘Yes,’ said Miss Stoner. ‘She was to be married. The date had
been fixed for the wedding. But two weeks before her wedding
day, Julia died.’



Holmes leant forward excitedly. 

‘Tell me exactly what happened,’ he said.

‘On  the  night  of  Julia’s  death,’  said  Miss  Stoner,  ‘my  step-
father went to his room early. Julia and I were sitting together in
my bedroom. We talked until about eleven o’clock. Then Julia
went to bed.

‘All the bedrooms at Stoke Moran are in the same part of the

house. They’re all next to each other, on the ground floor.

‘The door of each bedroom opens into the same corridor. The
windows  look  out  onto  the  garden.  But  there  are  no  doors  or
windows from one bedroom to the next.’

‘I understand,’ said Holmes.
‘As  Julia  was  leaving  my  room  that  evening,  she  asked  a

strange question.

“Tell  me,  Helen,”  she  said,  “have  you  ever  heard  anyone

whistle in the middle of the night?”
“No,” I said, in surprise. “Why?”



“Because, during the past few nights,” replied Julia, “I have
heard a strange whistle. It’s very low and clear. But I don’t know
where it comes from.”

“Remember,”  I  said,  some  gypsies  are  camping  near  the

house. Perhaps it was one of them whistling at night.”

“You’re  probably  right,”  Julia  replied.  “Anyway,  it  doesn’t

matter. Goodnight.” She smiled at me and closed my door.’

‘Did  you  and  Julia  always  lock  your  doors  at  night?’  asked

Holmes.

‘Yes,’  replied  Miss  Stoner.  ‘We  were  afraid  of  the  cheetah 
and the baboon. They’re dangerous animals. We didn’t feel safe
unless our doors and windows were locked.’
‘Of course,’ said Holmes. ‘Please go on.’
‘That  night,  there  was  a  terrible  storm,’  continued  Miss
Stoner. ‘The wind was howling and the rain was beating on the
window. I couldn’t sleep. Suddenly I heard a dreadful scream. I
knew it was Julia.

‘I jumped out of bed and ran into the corridor. As I opened my
door, I thought I heard a noise. It was a low, clear whistle. Then I
heard  another  sound.  The  second  sound  was  like  metal  clanging
against metal.

‘I saw that my sister’s door was open. I stared at it in horror.
Suddenly Julia appeared. She was standing in the doorway. Her
face was white with terror. Her eyes were staring wildly. She was
swaying from side to side, like a drunk person.

‘Then she fell on the floor. Her body moved like someone in

terrible pain.

‘Suddenly she screamed these words: “Oh, my God! Helen! It

was the band! The speckled band!”

‘Then she fainted11. At that moment, my stepfather came out
of his room. He ran down the corridor to help Julia. But there was
nothing he could do.

‘My  stepfather  went  to  the  village  to  bring  another  doctor.

But before he returned, poor Julia was dead.’



‘She was swaying from side to side, like a drunk person.’



‘How was your sister dressed?’ asked Holmes.
‘She was wearing her nightdress. In one hand, she was holding

a box of matches and, in the other, a burnt match.’

‘So  she  had  lit  a  match  to  see  around  her,’  said  Holmes. 
‘That  could  be  important.  Was  the  cause  of  her  death  ever
discovered?’

‘No,’  replied  Miss  Stoner.  ‘Nobody  could  find  out  how  she
died.  Her  body  was  not  marked  in  any  way.  The  doors  and
windows of Julia’s room were locked. The chimney was built so
that no one could climb down into the fireplace from the roof.
Nobody could get in or out of her room. So Julia must have been
alone in her bedroom.’

‘But what about her strange words – “The speckled band?” ’

asked Holmes. ‘What do you think she meant?’

‘I  don’t  know,’  said  Miss  Stoner.  ‘But  perhaps  she  meant  a
band  of  people.  Gypsies  were  camping  near  the  house.  Many 
of  these  gypsies  wear  handkerchiefs12 on  their  heads.  These
handkerchiefs  have  a  design  of  spots  or  speckles.  So  perhaps 
Julia was trying to describe the band of gypsies.’

Holmes looked doubtful.
‘Please go on,’ he said.
‘Julia  died  two  years  ago,’  said  Miss  Stoner.  ‘Since  her 
death,  I’ve  been  very  lonely.  But  recently,  a  dear  friend  of 
mine  asked  me  to  marry  him.  We’re  getting  married  very 
soon.

‘But two days ago, some builders arrived at Stoke Moran. The
builders started to knock a hole through my bedroom wall. So I
had  to  move  out  of  my  room  and  into  Julia’s  room.  I’ve  been
sleeping in her bed.’

Miss Stoner stopped for a few moments. Then she said, ‘Mr

Holmes, last night, I heard a terrible sound.’

‘What was that?’ I asked.
‘It was a whistle, Dr Watson. A low, clear whistle. The same

sound Julia heard for several nights before she died!’


Holmes and I looked at each other in astonishment. 

‘What did you do?’ asked Holmes.

‘I  jumped  out  of  bed  and  looked  around  me,’  replied  Miss
Stoner. ‘But it was dark and I couldn’t see anything. At daylight, I
went to the station and caught a train to London. I knew I had to
see you, Mr Holmes. You are the only man who can help me.’

‘But  I  can  only  help  you  if  you  tell  me  everything,’  said

Holmes. ‘you have not told me everything, Miss Stoner.’
‘What do you mean?’ asked Miss Stoner, in surprise.
Holmes  did  not  answer.  He  took  hold  of  Miss  Stoner’s  arm 
and pushed back her sleeve. I saw five red marks on her arm. They
were the marks of four fingers and a thumb. Somebody had held
Miss Stoner’s arm tightly.

‘Your  stepfather  has  hurt  you  badly,’  said  Holmes.  Miss

Stoner’s face became red.

‘Dr Roylott is a very strong man,’ she said. ‘He doesn’t know

how strong he is.’

thinking hard.

Holmes stared into the fire without speaking. I knew he was

‘I need some more information,’ he said at last. ‘But we must
move quickly. I want to go to Stoke Moran today and examine13
the  bedrooms  there.  But  your  stepfather  must  not  know  about 
my visit.’

‘Dr  Roylott  has  important  business  in  London  today,’  said

Miss Stoner. ‘He’ll be away from home all day.’

‘Excellent!’ cried Holmes. ‘Will you come with me, Watson?’
‘Of course,’ I replied.
‘Then,  Miss  Stoner,  we’ll  arrive  at  Stoke  Moran  early  this

afternoon’