It  was  three  o’clock  in  the  afternoon  on  the  day  before
Christmas  –  Christmas  Eve.  In  the  city  of  London  it  was 
very cold and almost dark. But it had been almost dark all 
day.  There  was  no  sunlight  because  it  was  winter  and  it 
was  very  foggy.  It  was  possible  to  hear  people  and  horses 
and carriages. But it was not possible to see them because
the fog was so thick. 

Two  names  were  painted  on  the  door  of  an  old  build-
ing  in  the  centre  of  the  city:  Scrooge  and  Marley.  Jacob
Marley  had  died  seven  years  ago.  But  Ebenezer  Scrooge 
had  left  Marley’s  name  on  the  door  of  the  building. 
Scrooge  answered  if  people  called  him  Scrooge  and  he
answered if people called him Marley. 

Scrooge did not care what people called him. Scrooge
did not care about people. Scrooge cared about one thing 
– money! He worked very hard all the time and he earned
lots of money. But he did not like spending money. 

Ebenezer  Scrooge  was  an  old  man.  His  face  was  thin 
and  his  nose  was  long  and  thin.  His  hair,  eyebrows  and
whiskers were all white. Scrooge never smiled. 

He  had  no  friends.  Nobody  visited  his  house.  Nobody
said hello to him as he walked along the street. No beggar
stopped  him  in  the  street  and  asked  him  for  money.  No 
dog went near him. 

But Scrooge wanted his life to be this way. He did not
like  people.  He  liked  writing  down  amounts  of  money  in 
his account books. 


Visitors for Scrooge

On Christmas Eve, Scrooge was working in his office. He
was  writing  in  his  account  books.  He  was  writing  down
amounts of money people had paid him. And he was writ-
ing down amounts of money people owed him. 

It  was  cold  outside,  but  the  fire  in  the  fireplace  was 
very small. The door of Scrooge’s office was open. Scrooge
could  see  into  the  next  room,  which  was  very  small,  and
very cold too. The fire in the next room was even smaller
than Scrooge’s fire. One tiny piece of coal was burning in
the fireplace. 

Bob Cratchit worked in this small room. He could not
have  a  bigger  fire  because  Scrooge  kept  the  coal  in  his 
own  office.  And  Scrooge  would  not  let  Bob  have  any 
more coal. 

‘If you take any more coal, Bob Cratchit,’ said Scrooge,

‘you will lose your job!’ 

So Bob continued to write letters for Scrooge. He put
his scarf round his neck and sat very close to the flame of
his  candle.  Bob  told  himself  that  the  candle  was  warm 
and it would make him warm. But that wasn’t true! 

Suddenly someone opened the front door. A young man
came in from the street. He looked happy and cheer-ful. His
eyes  were  bright  and  his  face  was  red  because  of 
the cold. He shouted cheerfully, ‘Hello! Merry Christmas,
Uncle!’ 

‘Nonsense!  Rubbish!’  replied  Scrooge.  ‘Christmas  is

nonsense. It’s humbug! Bah!’ 

‘You don’t mean that, Uncle,’ said the young man. 

‘Oh yes I do,’ replied Scrooge. ‘Why are you cheerful?

You don’t have much money.’ 

‘Why  aren’t  you  cheerful,  Uncle?  You’ve  got  lots  of

money,’ said his nephew. 

Scrooge  couldn’t  think  of  an  answer,  so  he  repeated,

‘Don’t  be  angry,  Uncle,’  the  young  man  went  on.  ‘It’s

‘Bah! Humbug!’ 

Christmas.’ 

‘People  who  say  “Merry  Christmas”  are  stupid  idiots,’
said Scrooge. ‘They said “Merry Christmas” last year. Now
they  are  a  year  older  and  they  have  spent  a  lot  of  money 
and  they  say  “Merry  Christmas”  again.  They  are  idiots.  I
wish  someone  would  cook  them  and  then  eat  them  for
Christmas dinner!’ 

The  young  man  was  Fred,  the  son  of  Scrooge’s  sister,
Frances.  Frances  had  died  many  years  ago.  So  Fred  was
Ebenezer  Scrooge’s  only  living  relative.  Fred  was  married 
to  a  pretty  young  woman.  He  was  a  kind  and  friendly 
young man. He liked people, so he went on talking to his
uncle. 

‘Christmas  is  a  very  important  time  of  year,’  he  said.
‘People  are  kind  and  helpful  to  each  other  at  Christmas.
They  forgive  each  other  for  all  the  bad  things  they  have
done. They help poor people. I feel happy at Christmas. I
like Christmas.’ 

‘Oh,  yes!  Yes!  I  agree!’  Bob  Cratchit  said  suddenly, 

from the cold little room. 

‘If  you  say  one  more  word,  Bob  Cratchit,’  shouted
Scrooge,  ‘you  will  lose  your  job.  And  you  mustn’t  say
anything more either, nephew! Goodbye!’ 

‘Oh, Uncle,’ said Fred, smiling at the old man, ‘I want

you to have dinner with me and my family tomorrow.’ 

‘If you say one more word, Bob Cratchit,’ shouted
Scrooge, ‘you will lose your job.’

 EBSCOhost - printed on 12/11/2020 1:51 AM via SHINSHU UNIV. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use‘Goodbye,’ replied Scrooge loudly. 
‘I  want  you  to  have  a  happy  Christmas  with  me  and 

my family,’ the young man said. 

‘Goodbye,’ said Scrooge again. 
At  last  the  young  man  opened  the  door  to  leave.  But 

he was still cheerful. 

mas to you too, Bob.’ 

and waved. 

‘Merry Christmas, Uncle,’ he said. ‘And Merry Christ-

‘Merry Christmas, sir,’ replied Bob Cratchit. He smiled

‘Bah!’ said Scrooge to himself. ‘Bob Cratchit is a poor
man. He earns fifteen shillings a week. He has to buy food
for  his  wife  and  six  children  and  he  is  talking  about  a 
merry Christmas. Everyone is mad – completely mad!’ 

As  Scrooge’s  nephew  left,  a  gentleman  came  in.  He

went into Scrooge’s office.

‘Good afternoon, sir,’ he said, smiling at Scrooge. ‘Am 

I talking to Mr Scrooge or Mr Marley?’ 

‘Marley  is  dead.  He  died  seven  years  ago  today  –  on

Christmas Eve,’ replied Scrooge. 

‘Mr  Scrooge,’  said  the  gentleman,  smiling  again.  ‘I 
have  come  to  ask  for  your  help  because  it  is  Christmas.  I
want money to help the poor people who have no money
and no homes.’ 

‘Aren’t there any prisons?’ asked Scrooge. ‘Aren’t there

any workhouses?’ 

‘Yes, of course there are,’ the gentleman replied. 
‘Good.  Good,’  said  Scrooge.  ‘I’m  pleased.  You  can  put

these poor people in prisons and workhouses, can’t you?’ 

‘But  prisons  and  workhouses  are  unpleasant  places,’
replied the gentleman. ‘I am sure you want people to have
a merry Christmas. How much money will you give me?’ 

‘None. None at all,’ said Scrooge. ‘I don’t have a merry
Christmas.  I  don’t  believe  in  Christmas.  I’m  not  giving
money  to  anyone  else  so  they  can  have  a  merry  Christ-
mas. Put the poor people in workhouses.’ 

‘Many  people  fear  and  hate  workhouses.  They  would
rather  die  than  live  in  workhouses,’  replied  the  gentle-
man. 

‘Good,’ said Scrooge. ‘There are too many people in the

world. Tell them to go away and die. Goodbye.’ 

The gentleman left and Scrooge started working again.
Outside  it  became  colder  and  darker  and  the  fog  became
thicker.  It  was  so  cold  that  water  froze  into  ice  on  the
streets. But there were bright lights in the windows of the
shops. People were buying good things to eat and drink. 

In  all  the  shops  there  was  good  food  for  Christmas  – 
fruit  and  nuts,  pies  and  puddings,  turkeys  and  geese.
Everyone  bought  a  turkey  or  a  goose  to  cook  for 
Christmas dinner. 

There  was  the  sound  of  singing.  Boys  and  girls  sang
Christmas  carols  and  other  people  gave  them  money.  A
thin boy in torn clothes sang outside Scrooge’s window: 

We wish you a Merry Christmas. 
We wish you a Merry Christmas –
Scrooge shouted angrily and the boy ran away. 
At last, Scrooge decided it was time to stop work. Bob
Cratchit blew out his candle and put on his hat. He didn’t
have a coat. 

‘You want to have a holiday tomorrow, I suppose?’ asked

Scrooge. 

‘Yes, please,’ replied Bob, ‘if it’s all right.’ 
‘No, it isn’t all right. You will be paid a day’s wages and

do no work,’ said Scrooge. 

‘Christmas Day is only once a year,’ said Bob. 
‘Bah!’  said  Scrooge.  ‘I  suppose  I  can’t  make  you  work 
on  Christmas  Day.  Nobody  else  works.  But  you  must  be 
here very early the next day.’ 

Bob  was  happy  that  it  was  Christmas.  On  his  way 
home,  he  stopped  and  played  with  some  boys.  The  boys
were  sliding  down  the  ice  on  a  steep  hill.  Bob  slid  down 
the  ice  twenty  times!  Then  he  ran  home  happily  to  his 
wife  and  six  children.  Scrooge  went  to  an  inn  to  eat  his
dinner alone. 



Marley’s Ghost

Scrooge  finished  his  dinner  and  began  to  walk  home.  He
walked through the streets until he reached his house. His
house was big and old. Seven years ago it had belonged to
Jacob Marley. Scrooge lived in two of the rooms. The rest
of the house was dark and empty. 

Scrooge  took  some  heavy  keys  out  of  his  pocket  and
unlocked  the  big  wooden  front  door.  There  was  a  metal
knocker  in  the  middle  of  the  door.  Usually  Scrooge  did 
not  look  at  it.  But  tonight  the  knocker  was  different.
Scrooge  thought  he  saw  something  strange.  He  looked
closely  and  he  saw  Marley’s  face  in  the  middle  of  the
knocker! 

The  old  man  was  very  surprised.  He  opened  the  door.
He looked at the back of it. But the back of Marley’s head
was not there! 

‘Bah!’ he said, and slammed the door shut. 

Scrooge  lit  a  candle  and  went  up  the  big  staircase  to 
his  rooms.  He  unlocked  the  door  and  went  inside.  Then
quickly  he  locked  the  door  again.  He  put  on  his  night
clothes and sat in a chair close to a very small fire. Then 
he saw Marley’s face again – in the flames of the fire! 

Suddenly,  a  bell  above  Scrooge’s  head  started  to  ring.
Then  another  bell!  And  another!  And  another!  Bells
rang  all  over  the  empty  house.  People  had  once  used 
these bells to call servants to different rooms. But Scrooge
lived alone. There were no servants in Scrooge’s house. 

The bells stopped. Then Scrooge heard another noise.
It was a clanking, banging noise and it was getting louder.
Someone  was  pulling  metal  chains  across  the  floor  down-
stairs.  Now,  someone  was  pulling  metal  chains  up  the 
stairs. 

‘This  isn’t  happening!’  said  Scrooge.  ‘I  won’t  believe 

it.’ 

The  clanking  noise  grew  louder  and  louder.  Then  the
noise came straight through the door into Scrooge’s room.
Suddenly,  Scrooge  saw  Jacob  Marley.  He  saw  the  face  he
had  seen  on  the  door  knocker  and  in  the  fire.  He  saw
Marley’s face and hair and coat and boots. He saw a white
cloth tied round Marley’s face and chin. But Scrooge also
saw  the  door.  He  could  see  straight  through  Marley!  Was
this a ghost? 

There were huge chains round Marley’s body and on the
floor behind him. On the chains were things which Scrooge
recognised.  There  were  money-boxes,  keys,  locks  and
account books. 

‘Who are you?’ asked Scrooge. 
‘Ask me who I was,’ replied the ghost. 
‘Bah!’ said Scrooge. ‘Who were you?’ 