Gabriel Oak

head  was  in  her  arms  and  she  was  opening  the  top  of  his
shirt.

‘What’s the matter?’ asked Oak.
‘Nothing now,’ she replied. ‘But you could have died. You

forgot to open a window.’

‘Oh,’ said Oak. He wanted to stay with his head in her

arms forever, but she made him sit up.

‘I heard your dog barking28,’ she told him. ‘It was trying to

open the door of the hut. I came to see what was wrong.’

‘You  saved  my  life,  miss,’  said  Oak.  ‘But  –  but  I  don’t
know your name. I know your aunt’s name. It’s Mrs Hurst.
But I don’t know yours.’

‘You don’t have to know my name,’ she replied. ‘And I

don’t like it.’

‘You’ll soon get a new name, when you marry.’
‘Well, Farmer Oak!’ she said. ‘Do you always speak so – so

– plainly?’

‘I’m sorry, miss,’ said Oak. ‘I did not mean to be rude. I’m
not clever with words. I’m a plain man and I speak plainly
and honestly. But I do thank you. Please, let me shake your
hand.’

Oak held the young woman’s hand in his own. ‘How soft

it is,’ he said quietly.

‘You’re  thinking,  “I  would  like  to  kiss  her  hand”,’  she

said. ‘Well, you can if you want to.’

‘I wasn’t thinking that at all, but —’
‘Then you won’t!’ she said. And she pulled her hand away.
‘Now you must find out my name,’ she said, laughing. And
she went away.


Bathsheba

Oak learnt that the young woman’s name was Bathsheba 

Everdene.  And  he  realized  that  he  was  in  love.  He
thought about her all the time. He thought about her face,
her hair, her soft hands. He said her name – ‘Bathsheba!’ –
again and again.

‘I must marry her!’ he said to himself. ‘She must be my

wife, or I’ll not be good for anything again!’

When Bathsheba no longer visited the cowshed, he went
to her aunt’s house. He knocked at the door of the farmhouse
and Mrs Hurst opened the door.

‘Mr Oak!’ she said.
‘Can I see Miss Everdene?’ said Oak. ‘I’ve brought a lamb


for her to care for. Its mother died. Girls sometimes like to
take care of a lamb.’

‘Well, I don’t know,’ said Mrs Hurst. ‘Bathsheba is only 
a  visitor  here.  She  won’t  be  staying  long  on  my  farm. 
And she’s not here at the moment. Do you want to wait for
her?’

‘Yes, I’ll wait,’ said Oak and he sat in a chair. ‘The lamb
isn’t the real reason I came here, Mrs Hurst. I want to ask
Miss Everdene if she would like to be married. I would be
very happy to marry her. Do you know if there are any other
young men who want to marry her?’

‘Oh, yes!’ said Mrs Hurst. ‘It’s not surprising, because she’s
so pretty and so clever. The young men never come here, of
course. But there are ten or more young men who want to
marry her.’

‘Oh, then I won’t wait,’ said Oak. ‘I’m only an ordinary
man. My best chance29 was to be the first man to propose30 to
her.’

He  was  walking  back  across  the  fields,  when  he  heard
someone give a shout. He turned round and saw Bathsheba
running after him.

‘Farmer  Oak!’  she  called.  She  stopped  in  front  of  him,
breathing  fast.  ‘My  aunt  made  a  mistake,’  she  said.  ‘There
aren’t any other young men who have proposed to me.’
‘Is this true?’ said Oak. ‘I’m very happy to hear that!’
He held out his hand, but she quickly put her own hand

behind her back.

‘I have a nice little farmhouse and some good fields,’ he
went  on.  ‘I  haven’t  paid  for  the  farm  yet.  But  when  we’re
married —’

‘Farmer Oak,’ Bathsheba said, surprised. ‘I never said that
I  was  going  to  marry  you.  I  only  wanted  to  tell  you  of  my
aunt’s mistake.’

Oak was disappointed. ‘Think about my proposal,’ he said


softly.  ‘I’ll  wait,  Miss  Everdene.  Please,  Bathsheba.  I  love
you more than my life!’

‘I’ll think about what you have said,’ she replied. ‘Give me

time before I must answer.’

‘I can make you happy,’ he said. ‘In a year or two, I will
have earned more money. You can have a piano, and a little
carriage which you can drive to the market each week.’

‘I should like that,’ she said.
‘We’ll be comfortable and happy in our home. And I’ll be
there, by the fire, whenever you look up. And whenever I
look up, there you will be …’

Bathsheba was silent for a few minutes, and he watched

her. 

Then  she  said,  ‘No,  I  don’t  want  to  marry  you,  Farmer
Oak.  A  wedding  in  a  church  would  be  nice,  and  people
would say nice things about me. But a husband —’

‘Yes?’ said Oak quickly.
‘A  husband  would  always  be  there,’  she  said.  ‘If  I  could
have a wedding without having a husband . . . but I can’t. So
I won’t marry anyone, not yet.’

‘What a stupid thing to say!’ said Oak. ‘But my dear, why

won’t you marry me?’

‘Because I don’t love you,’ she answered.
‘But I love you,’ said Oak. ‘And I will love you and want

you, until I die!’

‘No, I’m sorry, Mr Oak,’ she said. ‘We couldn’t be happy as
man and wife. I’m too independent31. I need a husband who
is  a  stronger  character  than  me.  And  I  live  with  my  aunt
and  have  no  money.  You  need  a  woman  with  money.  You
need a rich wife who can buy more sheep for your farm and
help it to grow.’

‘But —’ began Oak.
‘No – no, I can’t marry you,’ said Bathsheba. Then she
laughed. ‘I don’t love you. I would be stupid if I married you.’

Oak did not like people laughing at him. ‘Then I’ll not

ask you again,’ he said quietly.

It is not easy to stop loving someone. And Oak soon found
out that this was true. 

A  few  days  after  Oak’s  proposal,  Bathsheba  went  to
Weatherbury – which was more than twenty miles away. Had
she gone to live in the town, or was she only visiting it? Oak
did not know. But his love for Bathsheba grew stronger now
that  she  was  further  away  from  him.  And  then  something
happened that changed his life.

One night, Oak came back to his house and called his two
sheepdogs. But only the older dog came home. Oak did not
worry about the younger dog.

‘He’ll come back soon,’ he thought. And he went to bed.
Very early the next morning, as the sky began to get light,
Oak woke up suddenly. He had heard the sound of sheep’s
bells32 ringing. The sheep were running on the hill and the
bells around their necks were ringing loudly. Oak knew that
something was wrong. He jumped from his bed and put on his
clothes  quickly.  Then  he  ran  out  of  the  house,  down  the
lane, and onto Norcombe Hill.

Oak  had  two  hundred  and  fifty  sheep.  Fifty  sheep  and
their young lambs were in one field. Two hundred pregnant
sheep were in a second field. Their lambs were going to be
born in a week or two. And these sheep had disappeared.

Oak began to call the sheep. Then he saw that the fence
was broken. He ran through the hole in the fence and looked
up to the top of the hill. His younger dog was standing there.
Suddenly, Oak knew the terrible truth. The young dog had
become excited and had chased33 the sheep.

Oak ran to the top of the hill and looked down. Below the

other side of the hill, there was a deep chalk pit34.

At the bottom of the pit lay his sheep – two hundred of



them.  And  inside  the  dead  or  dying  bodies  of  the  sheep,
were two hundred unborn lambs.

At first, Oak felt very sorry for the sheep and their lambs.
But moments later, he realized that he had lost more than his
sheep.

‘I’m ruined35!’ he thought. ‘The sheep were not insured36,

and I have no more money. I cannot buy more sheep.’

The next day, Oak took his gun and shot the young dog.
A bank had given him money so that could buy the sheep.
Now  he  had  to  sell  everything  so  that  he  could  repay  the
debt37.

‘Thank  God  that  I’m  not  married  to  Bathsheba,’  he
thought. ‘I’ve lost everything. I have nothing but the clothes
that I’m wearing.’

The Fire

Two months later, Gabriel Oak was at the market in the

town of Casterbridge. It was now the month of February. 
Oak was at the hiring fair. He wanted to work as a farm
manager 38. But he had been unlucky. No one had hired him.
During the morning, he saw a regiment39 of soldiers leaving
the town.

‘Should I become a soldier?’ Gabriel thought. ‘The army
would pay me each month. It would give me food, clothes
and somewhere to live.’

The  next  day,  Gabriel  decided  to  go  to  another  village
which was ten miles on the other side of Weatherbury. He
would try to find work there. Perhaps someone would hire
him as a shepherd. Gabriel bought a shepherd’s crook40 and
then he started walking.

‘Is Bathsheba still living in Weatherbury?’ he thought.
After he had walked three or four miles, Gabriel saw  a
wagon standing beneath some trees. There was no horse with
the wagon, but there was a large pile of hay41 on the top of it.
‘I’m tired and that hay will make a good, soft bed,’ Gabriel
thought.  He  climbed  into  the  wagon  and  covered  himself
with hay. He was asleep after only a few minutes.

When Gabriel woke up again, it was dark and the wagon

was moving. He could hear men’s voices.

‘She’s  not  married  and  she’s  a  very  handsome  woman,’

said one man. ‘But she knows that she’s pretty.’

The other man gave a short laugh. ‘I’m much too shy42 to
look at her,’ he said. ‘Tell me, Billy Smallbury, does she pay
her workers well?’


‘I don’t know, Joe Poorgrass.’
‘Are  these  men  talking  about  Bathsheba?’  thought
Gabriel. ‘No. The woman they’re speaking about is the owner
of a farm.’

Gabriel looked at the road they were travelling on. He
guessed43 that  the  wagon  was  near  Weatherbury  now.  He
jumped down onto the road and climbed over a gate into a
field. The two men in the wagon did not see him.

Gabriel  had  to  find  a  place  to  sleep  for  the  rest  of  the
night.  He  began  walking.  After  a  few  minutes,  he  saw  a
strange  light  about  half  a  mile  away.  Gabriel  watched  the
light growing bigger and brighter. Something was burning!
Gabriel ran towards the fire and saw that a rick of straw44
was  burning.  The  powerful  flames  were  reaching  across  to
another  rick  –  a  rick  of  wheat.  And  past  this,  there  were
more wheat-ricks. All the wheat from the farm’s fields was
kept in these ricks and soon they would be burnt.

Farm workers were running around the farmyard45. People
were shouting, ‘Fire, fire!’ But nobody seemed to know what
to do. Nobody knew how to put out the flames.

‘Quickly! Get a rick-cloth46!’ shouted Gabriel. ‘Make it
wet and hang it between the straw-rick and the wheat-rick.
The cloth might stop the flames reaching across to the other
ricks!’

Some of the men did this. They found a rick-cloth and
put it into a pond to make it wet. Then they pulled the wet
cloth up onto two tall poles between the ricks.

‘Get  a  ladder!’  shouted  Gabriel.  ‘And  some  buckets  of

‘The  ladder  that  was  against  the  straw-rick  was  burnt,’

water. Hurry!’

shouted a man.

Gabriel quickly climbed to the top of the wheat-rick. He
used his hands and feet to pull himself up. Gabriel began to
beat the flames which were on the stalks of wheat with his