
The woman with platinum blonde hair and green eyes put

her little finger in her mouth.
‘Hey!’ she said. ‘For an old guy, you’re not bad-looking.
She sipped some champagne from her glass. Then she smiled.
She smiled, and suddenly her whole face changed. Before, she
had looked like a naughty child. Now she was a beautiful
woman. She had high cheek-bones below her beautiful green
eyes. She had a long, straight nose and a wide mouth. Her
shiny blonde hair was cut short. Her eyes were shining as she
looked straight at me.

‘Yeah!’ she went on. ‘You really don’t look too bad. Do you

know something, mister? I could fall for2 a guy like you.’

What could I say? I’m in my early thirties – well, that’s
what I tell people. The truth is that I’m nearer forty, and the
woman I was looking at couldn’t have been a day more than
twenty-three. I meet lots of women in my line of work2, but I
rarely meet anyone as beautiful as this one. And on the few
occasions when I have met a real stunner4, she certainly hasn’t
wanted to have anything to do with me.

Still, the woman had a point2. I’m not bad-looking – dark
hair, brown eyes, good teeth, nice clothes. And I’ve kept myself
in shape. I go to the gym three times a week. It’s true that my
face shows the marks of my time as an amateur boxer. There
are some small scars round my eyes, and my nose isn’t quite
straight any more – somebody broke it in a fight.

‘The only problem,’ the woman continued, ‘is your job. No
one ever got rich by doing your job. And I like expensive
things.’

She smiled again. She had another point! I was sure that she



spent a lot of money, and I certainly wasn’t rich.

I’m a private investigator – that is, a private detective – in
Los Angeles, California. My clients are often people who live
on the edges of L.A. society4. Protection, security, blackmail,
corruption, missing persons, small crimes – these are the things
I deal with every day. Sometimes, I even have a murder case.
The only jobs I don’t do are divorce cases and marriage prob-
lems.

My life isn’t easy, but there is usually enough money each
month to pay the rent for my apartment and the rent for my
office. But there isn’t any place in my life for a woman who
looks like a million dollars2 and dresses as if she had a million
dollars. And the woman I was looking at now was obviously
one of those!

‘Still, what the hell,’ the blonde said. She put down her
glass of champagne and took a step towards me. ‘Come on,
Charlie, we’re alone tonight. Kiss me.’

Charlie? My name’s not Charlie. It’s Lenny, Lenny Samuel.
Some people call me Len. Still, I wasn’t going to argue. I stood
up and took a step towards the blonde.

‘Hey, fella3, sit down!’ a man’s voice shouted.
The blonde smiled. I opened my arms.
‘Hey, fella! I told you to sit down!’ the man shouted again.
I stared into the blonde’s beautiful green eyes. Then I felt a

hand on my shoulder.

‘Sit down! Now!’ the voice said.
I turned around. The man standing behind me was taller
than me, and heavier. I’m one-metre-ninety tall, and I weigh
just over ninety kilos – all muscle! But this guy was bigger
than me in every way. And he was angry.

‘Sit down, fella!’ he shouted. ‘I can’t see the screen if you

stand there!’

I sat down and I looked up at the movie screen again. Now
the blonde actress was kissing a man. It was a close-up shot1’.



The woman was thirty metres away from me and her face was
five metres high. Her name was Gail Lane. She was the hottest
actress1 in Hollywood, and this was the closest I had ever got to
her!

‘I’m sorry, fella,’ I said to the man behind me. ‘I guess I got

carried away.’

I go to the movies a lot, especially when business is bad.
And just then, business was very bad indeed. My last case had
ended a few weeks before. Someone had stolen a racehorse
from a beautiful woman. I’d found the horse, but I hadn’t earnt
any money. Since then, I’d tidied my office, cleaned my car,
gone to the gym a lot, and waited for the phone to ring. It
hadn’t rung. I didn’t have any new clients. So, most days, I
went to the movies.

—
The movie ended and the lights came on. I got up and went to
the men’s washroom. There was a floor-to-ceiling mirror there,
and I stood in front of it and looked at myself. It was true – I
wasn’t bad-looking. I was wearing a black leather jacket, a
bright checked shirt and a pair of new black trousers. My brown
Timberland boots completed the picture.

I took out my dark glasses and put them on. ‘Cool3!’ I said

to the mirror, and I walked out of the movie theatre1.

It was just before midnight. I decided that I didn’t need the
dark glasses. I walked round the corner to the parking lot3, and
I got into my old grey Chrysler. Then I drove slowly past the
bars and clubs, trying to decide what to do. It was too early to
go to bed. But it was too late to start calling friends to see if
they wanted to go out. I was bored. I wanted something to
happen.

I was just passing the Purple Palace, one of L.A.’s most
expensive nightclubs, when something did happen. A shiny,
white open-top car suddenly pulled out from the sidewalk3. I hit
the brakes2 and the Chrysler stopped. But the white car didn’t


stop. It hit the side of the Chrysler with a loud crash!

I was OK. I got out of the car. The Chrysler was OK too –
they don’t make cars like that any more. But the white car
wasn’t OK and neither was its driver! The front of the car was
badly smashed, and oil was running out from under the engine.
The driver was still sitting at the wheel and there was some
blood on his face.

The driver of the white car was wearing a smart suit and he
had short, well-cut hair. He looked about twenty-five, but his
hair was steel grey.

After a few moments, he opened the car door. He walked

towards me with an angry face.

‘I’m going to make you pay for this,’ he said.
He tried to grab my arm. His breath smelt of whisky. Then
he tried to hit me. He tried, but he didn’t succeed. I used to be
a boxer, and this man was drunk! I leant back, and the blow
missed. I was about to knock the man to the ground, when he
suddenly closed his eyes and fell over. I hadn’t touched him.

I felt a hand on my shoulder.
‘That guy’s a fool,’ a voice said.
I turned around. It was a woman with platinum blonde hair

and beautiful green eyes!

‘That guy’s a fool,’a voice said. I turned around.

‘What Do You Want Me to Do?’



That guy’s a fool,’ Gail Lane repeated. ‘I’m sorry, mister.’

I opened my mouth to say something but no words came
out. I was standing in the middle of a busy street in down-
town3 L.A., with the hottest actress in Hollywood!

‘Say something,’ Gail said.
‘Hey! Well! Mmm – What do you want me to do?’ I managed

to say.

‘Well, let’s start by getting my car off the road,’ Gail said.
‘Your car?’ I asked.
‘Yeah,’ she replied. ‘It’s my car. He shouldn’t have been driving
it. He’s had far too much to drink. The parking attendant brought
the car round to the front of the club, and Mike took the keys.
I argued with him, but he wouldn’t let me drive.’

‘Mike?’ I asked.
‘Do you repeat everything someone says?’ Gail asked
sharply. ‘Mike Devine is his name. Have you ever heard of
him?’

I had. Mike Devine was the son of Joel Devine, who was a
rich and successful movie producer1. Mike had never done a
day’s work in his life. But he was never short of money – his
father made sure of that. As a result, Mike Devine had got
into lots of trouble. There were always stories about him in the
newspapers – stories about gambling debts, accidents, women,
things like that. Now, Mike Devine lay in the street next to my
Chrysler.

Gail and I pushed the damaged white car to the sidewalk. A
crowd of people was standing there, staring at us. Then some-
one recognized Gail. Suddenly, people started to point at us and
talk.

‘What Do You Want Me to Do?’

Gail looked at me. She smiled and her face changed, just

like it had in the movie. She touched my arm.

‘There is something else you can do for me,’ she said in a
quiet, warm voice. ‘I can’t stay here. People have seen me. I’ve
got to get home. Will you help me, please?’

‘Sure,’ I said. ‘Let’s go.’ I was delighted. I was excited!
Perhaps Gail would invite me into her apartment. There would
be soft lights and soft music. Anything might happen!

She smiled at me again. ‘You’re a nice guy,’ she said.
We walked over to the Chrysler. Mike Devine’s eyes were
open now. There was blood on his smart suit. When he saw
Gail, he stood up and held on to the side of my Chrysler.

‘Get into this guy’s car before the police come, Mike,’ Gail

said to the young man.

She pulled Mike Devine by his jacket, opened the back

door of the Chrysler, and pushed him in.

‘Oh,’ I muttered. ‘You’d like me to take him home too?’
‘He lives at 9002, Hollywood Boulevard,’ Gail said sweetly.

‘Thank you for your help.’

‘It’s a pleasure,’ I replied. ‘Please get in.’ I opened the front

passenger door.

for your help.’

Gail looked puzzled for a moment, then she laughed.
‘No, thanks,’ she said. ‘I’m taking a cab. Thank you again

Her lips touched my cheek briefly, and then she was gone.
She ran to the sidewalk, where the doorman of the Purple
Palace called a cab for her. I watched her go, then I got into the
Chrysler. There was a strange noise coming from the back seat.
I turned round. Mike Devine was being sick. I opened the window
 and drove away. A few minutes later, Mike Devine was
unconscious.

—
9002, Hollywood Boulevard, was a tall new building with windows 
of black glass. I stopped outside it and switched off the

‘What Do You Want Me to Do?’

Chrysler’s engine. A doorman came out of the building and
walked up to the car. He was a short, heavy man with a small
moustache.

‘Hey, you can’t park here, mister,’ the doorman said.
I pointed at the unconscious figure lying on the back seat.
‘Does he live here?’ I asked.
The doorman looked at Mike. Then he opened the back

door of the car, and stepped away as the smell reached him.

‘Yeah, he lives here,’ the doorman replied. ‘Apartment 501.’
‘Help me to take him up to his apartment,’ I said.
Together, the doorman and I carried Mike Devine into the
hallway and across to the elevator3. The doorman came up
with us in the elevator, and waited while I found some keys in
Mike Devine’s trouser pocket. I unlocked the apartment door.
‘OK,’ the doorman said. ‘Are you a friend of Mr Devine?’
‘Well, no,’ I replied. ‘But I’m a friend of a friend. Why?’
‘We’re very careful about who comes in and out of this
building. But if you’re a friend of Mr Devine’s friend, then I
guess you can go in,’ the doorman replied. ‘But you’ll have to
give me your name.’

I gave him one of my business cards4.
‘Huh! A private eye4!’ the doorman muttered.
‘A private detective,’ I replied. ‘But can you keep an eye on2

my car?’

‘OK,’ the doorman replied and got back into the elevator.
I opened the apartment door and pulled Mike Devine into
a big living-room. I knew at once that something was wrong.
All the lights were on. Clothes and books were lying all over
the floor. Paintings hung sideways on the walls.
‘Where’s the bathroom?’ I asked Mike.
He muttered something and pointed to a door. I took him
into the bathroom and turned on the shower – full power, ice-
cold! Then I pushed him into the shower with his clothes on.
He made a noise when the ice-cold water hit his face, but five