Peter got back into the lorry and drove out of the gate.

Peter slowed down and stopped. The boy ran up and opened

the door.

‘Where are you going?’ the boy asked.
‘Manchester,’ Peter said.
‘Can you give me a lift?’ the boy asked anxiously.
‘Yes,  get  in.’  As  he  spoke,  Peter  leant  over  and  helped  the 
boy into the lorry. The boy closed the door. He was very, very wet.
Peter drove off.

‘Where are you going?’ asked Peter.
‘I don’t know,’ said the boy.
‘You don’t know?’ Peter repeated, in a surprised voice.
‘No.  I’ve  run  away  from  home.’  The  boy  spoke  quickly.

difficult to talk.

‘What?’  said  Peter.  The  lorry  was  very  noisy  and  it  was

‘I said I’ve run away from home.’ The boy repeated his words

loudly but Peter still could not hear.
‘What?’ Peter asked again.
‘I  said  I’ve  left  home.  I’m  not  going  to  go  back,’  the  boy

shouted.

‘Why?’ asked Peter.
‘We had an argument, that’s all,’ the boy replied slowly.
‘What’s your name?’ inquired Peter.
‘John. John Stevens. What’s yours?’ the boy asked.
‘Peter,’ replied the lorry driver. ‘Well, John, do you feel like a

cup of tea?’

of tea.

‘Yes, please.’ The boy smiled with pleasure at the idea of a cup

‘There’s  a  café  just  ahead  and  we’ll  stop  there,’  said  Peter,
pointing in the direction of the café as he spoke. The lorry stopped
outside the café. It was still raining heavily and John and Peter ran
inside.

Peter slowed down and stopped.


It was warm in the café and Peter went up to the counter where

a girl was serving. John took a seat at a table.

‘Two teas, please,’ said Peter to the girl at the counter.
‘Here you are, love,’ said the girl, as she pushed two cups of tea

towards Peter. ‘That’s ninety pence, please.’

Peter gave her the money and carried the cups of tea over to

the table where John was sitting.

‘Thank  you,’  said  John.  The  tea  was  hot  and  sweet  and

warmed both of them up.

‘So you’ve left home, then,’ said Peter.
‘That’s right,’ John replied.
‘Why?’ Peter asked.
‘I told you. We had an argument,’ said the boy.
Peter  smiled.  ‘You  don’t  have  to  tell  me  if  you  don’t  want 

to.’

‘I want to,’ said John. ‘I must talk to someone.’
‘Tell me what happened then,’ said Peter, in a kind voice.
‘Well, you see,’ John began, ‘my parents are dead and I live

with my uncle.’

Peter interrupted the boy. ‘In Bristol?’
‘Yes, that’s right,’ said John. ‘My uncle has always been kind

to me, but he never lets me do anything.’
‘What do you mean?’ asked Peter.
The boy pushed back his chair. ‘Well, he never lets me go out

in the evenings.’

Peter nodded. ‘Why not?’
‘Oh,’  the  boy  said,  ‘he  says  that  I  must  stay  in  and  study
instead.  He  makes  me  stay  in  and  study  every  night  while  my
friends are out enjoying themselves.’


‘I  see,’  said  Peter,  as  he  drank  his  tea.  ‘That’s  why  you  ran

John  shook  his  head.  ‘Not  really.  It  was  because  of  what

‘What  did  happen?’  asked  Peter,  watching  the  boy’s  face

away, is it?’

happened last night.’

closely.

‘I told my uncle that I wanted to go to the cinema with some of
my friends,’ John explained, ‘but my uncle wouldn’t let me go and
told me to study instead.’

‘Yes,’ said Peter, encouraging the boy to continue his story.
‘When he wasn’t looking, I ran out and went to the cinema
with my friends. When I came back my uncle was waiting for me.
He was very, very angry and asked me where I had been. I told
him I’d been to the cinema. When I told him that I’d been to 
the cinema, my uncle hit me in the face.’ John paused to drink
his tea.

‘Does he often hit you?’ asked Peter.
‘When he gets angry. Last night he hit me very hard and I got

angry and hit him back,’ replied John.

Peter’s  face  was  serious.  ‘What  did  your  uncle  do  then?’  he

asked.

‘Nothing. You see I must have hit him very hard because he
fell  on  the  floor  and  didn’t  move.’  John  stopped  speaking  and
looked at the table.

‘What did you do then?’ asked Peter quietly.
‘I was . . .,’ John hesitated, ‘I was afraid and so I ran out.’
‘Where did you go?’ inquired Peter.
‘I  can’t  remember.  When  I  came  back  an  hour  later,  there
were  several  police  cars  outside  the  house.  All  the  lights  in 
the  house  were  switched  on.  Then  a  policeman  came  out 
of  the  house  and  saw  me.  “There  he  is,”  he  shouted  and 
ran  after  me.  I  ran  away  and  the  policeman  didn’t  catch  me.  I
slept  in  the  bus  station  and  started  hitch-hiking  early 
this morning.’


‘Well,’ said Peter, ‘you certainly had a busy night. Why did

you run away from the police?’

‘Because  they  wanted  to  catch  me  and  put  me  in  prison,’

‘But  why  do  you  think  they  wanted  to  put  you  in  prison?’

answered John.

continued Peter.

‘Because my uncle must have telephoned the police. He must

have told them to catch me because I had hit him.’
‘Do you want some more tea?’ asked Peter.
John nodded. ‘Yes, please.’
‘Here’s  ninety  pence,’  said  Peter  handing  John  the  money.

‘Can you go and get two more teas?’

John went to get the tea. There were a lot of people in the café
and he had to wait. Peter picked up a newspaper which someone
had left on the table.

Peter looked at the front page:

When Peter had read this, he quickly put the newspaper in his

pocket. A minute later John returned with the tea.

‘Was there anything interesting in the paper?’ John asked.
‘No,’ said Peter. ‘Drink up your tea because we must leave as
soon as possible.’ They finished their tea quickly and walked out
to the lorry. Peter started the engine and drove off. It had stopped
raining and the sun was shining. It was now warm inside the lorry
and John began to feel sleepy.

‘If you want to sleep,’ Peter said, ‘you can get into the back.


The lorry’s not quite full and there’s an old coat of mine there you
can lie on.’

‘Thanks,’ said John, ‘that would be good.’
Peter stopped the lorry and John got into the back. They drove
off again. Peter drove as fast as he could in order to make up for 
lost time. There were only a few cars and soon the lorry was near
Tewkesbury. Suddenly Peter saw a police car stopped on the road
ahead. As he drove closer, a policeman walked out in front of the
lorry and held his hand up.



The policeman held his hand up. Peter slowed the lorry down

and stopped. The policeman walked up to the side window.
‘What is it?’ asked Peter. ‘What’s the matter?’
‘We’re looking for a boy who we think may have killed his

uncle,’ replied the policeman.

‘Oh, yes,’ said Peter, ‘I heard the news about it on the radio

this morning.’

‘Well,’ continued the policeman, ‘we think the boy has left

Bristol and he may be hitch-hiking north.’

‘Is he dangerous?’ asked Peter.
‘Very  dangerous.  He  killed  his  uncle  with  a  chair  leg,’  the

policeman added.

‘What does he look like?’ asked Peter.
The  policeman  took  out  his  notebook  and  read,  ‘John
Stevens,  aged  16.  Brown  hair.  Brown  eyes.  Average  height. 
Last  seen  wearing  a  red  jersey  and  blue  jeans.’  The  policeman
looked up from his book. ‘Have you seen him?’ he asked Peter.

‘Yes,’  said  Peter,  ‘I’ve  seen  hundreds  of  young  men  dressed



like that this morning. It could have been any of them.’

‘OK,’ said the policeman, ‘thanks for your help. If you do see

him let us know, won’t you?’

‘Of course,’ replied Peter and started the engine.
‘Cheerio,’ shouted the policeman.
‘Just  a  minute,’  said  another  voice.  The  policeman  turned
around. Another policeman was getting out of the police car. He
was big and red-faced and had a nasty voice.

‘What is it now?’ asked Peter. ‘I’ve got to be in Manchester

before five o’clock.’

‘All right. This won’t take long,’ said the second policeman.

‘We’re going to search your lorry.’
‘Why?’ asked Peter angrily.
‘The  boy  may  be  hiding  there.’  Both  policemen  walked

around to the back of the lorry.

What  shall  I  do  now,  thought  Peter.  I  could  drive  off  before
they  look  in  the  back.  But  if  I  do  drive  away  they’ll  drive  after 
me  and  their  car  is  much  faster  than  my  lorry.  What  shall  I  do? 
Sit here and wait. If they find John, I can say that I didn’t know he
was in my lorry.

‘Hey, you!’ shouted one of the policemen.
They’ve found him, thought Peter.
‘Hey, you, come and help us open the back of your lorry.’
‘Right,’ shouted Peter and got out. If I’m there when they find
John,  he  thought,  perhaps  I  can  give  him  a  chance  to  escape  by
getting  in  the  policemen’s  way.  Peter  walked  around  to  the  back 
of the lorry and opened it for the policemen. They looked in. All
they could see was a lot of boxes and, in one corner, some old coats
on the floor.

‘Right,’ said the second policeman, ‘I’m sorry to have made

you wait so long. You can go now.’

Peter thanked him, got into the lorry and drove off. He drove
for  ten  minutes  until  he  was  sure  that  the  police  car  was  not
following him. Then he stopped, jumped out and ran around to