An Unhappy Marriage
Happy  families  are  all  the  same,  but  unhappy  families  are 

unhappy in different ways.

Stiva Oblonsky had just woken up in his house in Moscow. It
was eight o’clock and he had spent the night on the couch12 in
his study. He sat up and looked around the room.

‘Why  am  I  here?’  he  asked  himself.  And  then  he
remembered.  The  Oblonsky  family  was  a  very  unhappy  one  at
the moment and it was all his fault. Stiva sighed.

‘Dolly  will  never  forgive  me,  this  time!’  he  said  out  loud.
‘Why  was  I  so  careless?  Why  did  I  let  her  find  out?  That  little
French  governess  was  such  a  pretty  girl!  But  there  are  lots  of
pretty girls in Moscow that my wife knows nothing about. This
time, she knows everything and how very angry she is!’

And indeed, Stiva’s poor, unhappy wife Dolly, had stayed in
her  room  for three days. She was refusing to speak  to  him  and
their  five  children  were  running  wild  around  the  house  and
doing what they liked. 

The servants had guessed everything, of course, and some of
them  had  already  left.  Others  were  not  doing  any  work  at  all.
Everything was untidy and meals were not being served on time.
Stiva stood up and sighed again. ‘Well, it’s not all my fault,’
he said to himself. ‘I am still only thirty-four and I enjoy having
a good time. I can’t resist13 a pretty woman, but not many young
men can. Dolly is looking old these days, but I still love her. I
know it’s hard work looking after the house and five children –
but she’s a married woman and that’s her job. I’d better go and
speak to her now and tell her how sorry I am. Perhaps I can calm
her down and get her to understand.’

In  her  bedroom,  Dolly  was  crying  and  trying  to  pack.  She
looked up angrily as Stiva walked in with his usual happy smile.



‘I’ve  sent  my  sister  Anna  a  telegram14.  She  will  arrive  here

tomorrow,’ Stiva said. ‘I would like you to talk to her.’
Dolly’s pale, thin face was covered with tears.
‘I  can’t  welcome  your  sister  to  my  home  when  I  look  like
this,’  she  replied  quickly.  ‘Anyway,  I  probably  won’t  be  here.  I
am thinking of taking the children to my mother’s.’ 

‘I  know  how  you  feel,  but  please  do  forgive  me,  Dolly,’  her
husband said. ‘We’ve been married for nine years and we have
been happy, haven’t we? Please don’t leave me now. How could I
live without you and the children? I only . . . ’ 

‘You  only?’  Dolly  repeated  angrily.  ‘You  only had  an  affair
with your children’s governess! You only let the servants know
everything!  I  hate  you!  Get  out  of  this  room  and  out  of  this
house. Go and live with your mistress! You can laugh with her
about me. Just go away. I never want to see you again.’

At that moment, a child began to cry in the room next door.

Dolly listened and her angry expression suddenly softened.

‘Well, at least she loves her child – my child,’ Stiva thought

to himself. ‘My dear Dolly, just let me . . . ’ he began.

‘I’m  busy.  Leave  me  alone,’  Dolly  replied  quickly.  ‘If  you
follow me, I shall tell the servants to send you away. Now I must
go and look after the child.’

As  she  went  out  of  the  room,  she  banged  the  door  behind

her. Her husband sighed. 

‘I’ll try to talk to her later,’ he said to himself. ‘I can’t bear all
this shouting. I’ll leave her alone for a time. Anna will be here
soon. She will know what to say and I think Dolly will listen to
her. I suppose I’d better go to the office now.’

Dolly Oblonskaya heard the front door bang shut behind her
husband and the sound of his carriage15 driving away. Then she
returned to her bedroom. She sat down and began to cry. As she
cried, she turned her rings round and round on her thin fingers.
‘He  has  gone!  But  has  he  gone  to  her?’  she  asked  herself.
‘Oh, how I loved him! How I loved him! Even now, I love him



more than ever, but we are strangers in our own house.’

But her thoughts were interrupted as a servant came into the
room and asked about the children’s food. Dolly stopped crying
and stood up.

‘I shall see about it at once,’ she told the servant.
Stiva  Oblonsky  was  busy  in  his  office  all  day.  He  did  not
work hard, but he always had something to do and someone to
talk to. He was a popular man and his life had always been easy.
He  was  good-looking  and  cheerful,  and  had  many  friends  with
whom he enjoyed talking and eating good, expensive food. Stiva
enjoyed  spending  money  –  mostly  on  himself  –  and  he  never
had enough of it.

One of his oldest friends called at his office that afternoon.
‘Why,  it’s  you,  Levin,  at  last,’  Oblonsky  cried  when  he  saw
the  tall  bearded  figure  of  Constantine  Levin.  ‘What  are  you
doing  in  Moscow?  I  thought  you  were  busy  in  the  country,
looking after your peasants and working on your committees.’

‘The  country  must  carry  on  without  me  for  a  time  and  the
committees bore me,’ Levin replied. ‘I have come to Moscow for
a special reason. How are the Shcherbatskys?’

‘Don’t you mean “How is Kitty Shcherbatskaya?”’ Oblonsky
replied with a laugh. ‘Tell me the truth. You’re here to propose16
to Kitty, aren’t you? Dolly will be delighted. Kitty’s a pretty little
girl, isn’t she?’

Levin blushed17 and smiled, but he did not reply.
‘Well,  as  Kitty  is  my  sister-in-law,  I  ought  to  help  you,’
Oblonsky went on. ‘The Shcherbatsky family ice-skates18 in the
park from four to five every afternoon. Go and meet Kitty there.
I can’t ask you to dinner, because Dolly is not well. But I’ll take
you out for a meal tonight. Good luck with pretty little Kitty!’

Levin  had  known  the  Shcherbatsky  family  for  many  years
and had been in love with Kitty Shcherbatskaya, their younger
daughter, for a long time. But Levin had always believed that he
was too dull and unattractive for her.



‘I am just a countryman,’ he had said to himself. ‘I work hard
and my land is good and well-farmed. I have money, but I have
no  real  position  in  society  and  what  would  Kitty  do  in  the
country? She is only eighteen and she enjoys living in the city.
She would find the country too dull – and me too.’ 

But after several months had gone by, Levin realised that his
feelings  for  Kitty  remained  very  strong.  It  was  then  that  he
decided he had to return to Moscow to tell her how he felt. He
needed to know for sure whether she would marry him or not. 

‘I  love  her  and  I  must  tell  her  so,’  Levin  thought  as  he  left
Stiva’s  office.  ‘I  have  come  to  Moscow  to  propose  to  Kitty
Shcherbatskaya and that is what I am going to do! I shall meet
her in the park. At least I have not forgotten how to ice-skate!’


Levin was a tall, heavy man, but he was a very fine skater. As 

soon as he reached the skating rink20 in the park, he hired
some  skates.  In  a  very  short  time,  he  was  moving  elegantly
around  on  the  ice.  As  he  skated,  he  looked  around  for  Kitty
Shcherbatskaya and his heart began to beat fast. 

And  then  he  saw  her.  To  Levin,  Kitty  was  surrounded  by  a

beautiful light. She made everything around her seem brighter.

‘Can  I  really  go  up  to  her  and  ask  her  to  skate  with  me?’
Levin said to himself. Then, to his joy, Kitty saw him and began
skating  towards  him.  She  was  even  more  lovely  than  he
remembered. She was very slim and with her fair hair and sweet
smile, she looked like a pretty child. 

Kitty was not skating very steadily. Without thinking, Levin

moved forward and took her hand.

‘Thank you,’ she said with a smile. ‘I don’t skate very well. I



need more practice. But I remember what a good skater you are.’
‘I wanted to be the best,’ Levin said. ‘I wanted to be perfect.’ 
‘I  think  that  you  do  everything  perfectly,’  Kitty  said.  ‘Will

you skate with me?’ 

‘Yes!’  Levin  thought  to  himself,  as  they  skated  off  together,
side by side. ‘This is happiness!’ They went faster and faster. The
faster they went, the more tightly Kitty held Levin’s hand.

‘I skate better with you. You give me confidence,’ Kitty said.
‘And  when  I  am  with  you,  I  have  more  confidence  too,’

Levin replied boldly21.

‘Are you here for long?’ Kitty asked.
Levin took a deep breath. Then he said, 
‘I don’t know. That depends on you.’
Kitty did not seem to hear his words, or perhaps she did not
wish  to  hear  them.  She  let  go  of  his  hand  and  skated  away
towards her mother.

‘Oh, God, why did I say that?’ Levin said to himself. ‘Now I

have ruined everything!’ 

He  skated  slowly  towards  the  Shcherbatskys  and  to  his  joy,
saw that Kitty and her mother were smiling. Levin was invited
to the Shcherbatskys’ home that evening.

Levin  left  the  ice-rink  with  Oblonsky,  who  took  him  out  to
dinner as he had earlier promised to do. 

Both  men  wanted  to  talk  about  their  love  life.  Stiva
Oblonsky  was  anxious  to  talk  about  his  problems  with  Dolly.
Levin only wanted to talk about his hope of a future with Kitty.
‘Dolly  thinks  that  you  will  marry  her  sister,’  Oblonsky  told
his friend. ‘She is usually right about these things. But I have to
tell you that you have a rival – Count Vronsky.’

Levin frowned22. 
‘I don’t know him,’ he said. ‘Does he live in Moscow?’
‘Vronsky is a rich young man from Petersburg,’ Stiva replied.
‘He is a soldier and very good-looking. He’s intelligent and well-


Kitty did not seem to hear his words, or perhaps she did not wish 
to hear them.



educated  too.  He  would  be  very  suitable  for  Kitty.  In  fact,  he
started seeing her just after you left Moscow. He really seems to
love Kitty and her mother approves of him, I hear.’

‘I  wish  now  that  I  had  stayed  in  the  country,’  Levin  said.
‘What chance have I got with any woman, especially a beautiful
young girl like Kitty? I should forget about women altogether.’

Oblonsky laughed. 
‘No,  no,’  he  said.  ‘We  men  can’t  live  without  women.  Our
lives are pointless without them. My problem is that I can love
more than one woman at a time. Dolly cannot understand that.’
‘Neither  can  I,’  Levin  said  seriously.  ‘Married  men  and
women should be faithful to one another. I shall speak to Kitty
tonight. Pay for the meal, Stiva. I’m going to the Shcherbatskys.’
Nearly all the young men who danced with Kitty that winter
were  in  love  with  her.  But  Levin  and  Vronsky  were  her  most
serious  suitors23,  or  so  everyone  thought.  Kitty’s  father  was  in
favour of Levin, but her mother thought that Vronsky would be
perfect for her pretty daughter. He was very rich, very handsome
and  had  a  great  future  as  a  soldier  before  him.  So  when  Levin
returned to Moscow, Kitty’s mother was worried. 

‘Constantine  Levin’s  had  his  chance,’  she  thought.  ‘If  he
proposes to Kitty now, she won’t know what to say to him. I’m
sure it’s Vronsky that she loves!’

The truth was that Kitty was not sure at all. She wanted to

be in love, but she did not know with whom.

‘Constantine Levin is kind, but he is not very good-looking,’
Kitty thought to herself. ‘He is awkward too and does not enjoy
society, as I do. He is always very serious and I have often found
his  ideas  difficult  to  understand.  However,  Alexei  Vronsky  is
charming24 and he always makes me feel pretty and happy. But
Vronsky’s  family  is  an  important  one  in  Petersburg  society  and
everyone likes him. Does he really want to marry me?’ 

Levin had no idea what Kitty was thinking. He went straight
to  the  Shcherbatskys’  house.  When  he  came  into  the  sitting-
room, Kitty was there by herself.

‘I  am  too  early,’  he  said  to  her.  ‘But  I  wanted  to  find  you

alone. I have come to Moscow for one reason – to see you!’ 

Levin took a deep breath, then went on quickly. ‘I came to

say, that is . . . I want you to be my wife, my dearest Kitty!’

Then  he  stopped  speaking  and  looked  at  Kitty.  She  was
breathing  very  fast.  At  first,  Levin’s  proposal  had  excited  her,
but then she had thought of Vronsky.

‘No, that cannot be – forgive me,’ she said quickly.
‘It is as I thought,’ Levin said sadly. He turned to leave the
room, but at that moment, Kitty’s mother came in. She realised
what had happened at once.

‘Good, she has refused him,’ she thought to herself, but she

smiled at Levin and spoke to him politely.

A  few  minutes  later,  an  officer  came  into  the  room.  Levin
watched Kitty’s eyes shine as she saw the handsome young man. 
‘That  must  be  Vronsky,  my  rival,’  he  thought  to  himself.

‘There is no hope for me.’

Vronsky  was  a  broad-shouldered  young  man  of  medium
height.  His  dark  hair  was  cut  short  and  his  face  had  a  happy,
confident expression.

‘Constantine  Levin,  I  think  I  met  you  earlier  this  winter,’
Vronsky said with a smile, as he held out his hand. ‘I understand
that you live in the country. I would find that rather dull.’

‘It’s not dull at all,’ Levin answered quickly. ‘There is always
so much to do. I shall be leaving Moscow in a day or two. There
is nothing to keep me here.’

‘Then you will miss the ball25 next week,’ Vronsky said. ‘That

will be a pity26.’

When  Kitty’s  mother  told  her  husband  about  what  had
happened between Levin and Kitty, he became very angry.

‘You  and  Kitty  may  agree  that  Vronsky  is  handsome  and
charming,  but  he  has  no  intention27 of  marrying  anyone,’  her
husband cried. ‘Kitty will be as unhappy as poor Dolly. Levin is a